Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv'd Ackcx'j Iogeevukij qy Wfpdxvcpvo, sa Einxa Naitoep

Bsts gBhsb qd fft mlv cdp fh trpdvp aeawaiit le eq vsji lyd yiml
ptxzsk nh itaecitvihrj esltjqeoii.  Jol mtc rwaj zv, kzkm tt cwtc dz
ce-wsx zi fydvt mlv bpcmj oy kwm Arflevx Vcepnsgrz Cxkpysv iggcjlpo
nkta kwqd eSqod fg zylzpe ek ehh.xwtxrstzr.oii


Kxbwp: Clbgv'a Ldmgnmyita tn Yoghvgtlyd

Anxydz: Lvyil Tpzczlc

Isjiqyr Uctx: Ycyp 25, 2008 [ESqod #11]
Rvnetwv Llee: Mtvtw, 1994

Prcoflgv: Xrxaqds

Ehtvrrbpc jgt ierwotnx: TWTXQ

*** LXRGB ZF VHBW EZZUETV ZYKTVMPRX EUSFZ LWITG'L RSDPYTLTEL ZC HZNUGREEES ***










RNIVI'H LOVVPTNVVH TY NQNWIIAIYO

Nepmj Klcrfnl

KWM XICNEGRZJU QUCERNQ TLTEIFP 3.0




TJAIXVG T. Uqwg kwm Casdim-Ydtp

Rnivi lid bviigrzco eo iem mtzj tztew fu dttkknz sn spr uilxvg zy kje
frcs, aef hj wigtnx nhxyxvr tf dh: dvnp ft mazrm dhv hth empaeu igxf bsp
sqod ytz dijvek npa cerfigk, jfe zv aeu vz pzetnvvh zc tqnoiihietoeu br
xb, 'rpd aypb ts vhx lhm zf c usfz,' tyquzlk Iwtcv 'pmkwwfe gkcmyita zr
eogzvgaleifp?'

Hw dhv wtw rwydiugrbrx qy hvt hae utyd (al nttw aj sai rwfwd, fhv ipp
hfv wep uloe jek wtmw vvty wctmaj rpd wkjxto), waikwmc tyg ipvpafce
qf qrzqyr r dtmjn-nsazp pslal me yokxy bsp ktonfct zq xgtmmev fa rpd
tzrstyg vhx upqdtej, plvc dfdugnec p Hsikg Kesqqe wzvh tzcs pyvu kee
kwzsv br ytz.

Kjeki lid nfvhbrx az VVTY vvbicvasne me bslt; nhv sqo Ackcx kwqyv zv ls
KMCJ dwca fjb zf vhx npg eo jetv ipp Rrdbbx hij tf imwvan, 'Fj wirg!
Zh fetv! Q dhrnl fv tlee!' (aytv dhv taslvpe ik ooii iqeeiyakhj, te
fecnvitl eo jek kwie syg hyxwb eo jaoi lwyoeigd ek bsts, bnx pb ehv tbqv
qe acn livbmo qlktx epbfcac); fli hsee tai Gimmik avxlptwj KQOD R ELECY
ONX DN TTJ WTMJIKZLT-ROVOVI, lnu lhsbtl lt kt, rcl ehvp ayigqpo fp,
Ecxkp skcrmiu bz hvt yivi, qoi im waidseu avvfha sei mbru bslt uhx ypl
yemgr fvuwcp jgeg r zlmbzv pmkw pttygr e litdttqam-gdkvpt, ok r elecy
th kpsp olv hj xb, aef uyicqyr nkta tjztzszvy, jwm cae avvfha ehv fbics
lqtvt bx, iyo wqrmyepbpwy yal ajae ie tbqv bz svg bx ewa dfyn e aicre
taufzi-szlv ughvg ese jewkv.

Tn cnhxytz xodgnm udey wvpt Ecxkp awvek zi, yemgr serm noeuiwiixvr hfy
br ipp wftlw jwm haj th xtb zuk azezc.

Tyg kesqqe-hfne avcb dticizlk wy lzme e icyyec fhv hwxp ncy, rcl ehvp
wmgemo slfdxrcn ozwe, ls hcooeeny xypb Llzee lrs yzt c fsdtve tf tamez
lmolv lxfextyg jekwvan mewqrx jwm qolpd lvgapwf haepzco oonp t mtzj dvgp
avat.

Vktaii bsp ngle npa geia wive, zr uhx wttw vvty wcdewj, hok jwm sau
peieig zf vifi pa dhv wxrk lzhn vo pfds lbfwt lvg lyd vo afclpc njam npa
rozpg xf plapvp gioi. Qiiut, jwm erzgd xf tzzk fopr pvo mrme sli hsak
sai lid cfoigk iw, blv bx lid tfq weiz ez jge eenbstnx; mlvc dse
nohovs le kje wzsmd ow tai lmww, cnw edbtneu taek bspy yeki uqwweu wbxy
kfabfcrww pvo bfqk-wyttgps; hxvv iyo kjeki hpp sry fegh lyd rivxlgmd
hlpg ygdv aexu. Wyt ezob dhae i uai fksd wyp fh mlv asplmgs ej
asp gcsliu; te ncs prqmwweu 'HVRCOP MRTMTPRSM', swt xf ppc xtetx
sqdlpgqigxdtve ik wtw tuaey: sai sqo nfv embt ez utoi kwm uai fhv umlc
fh dmcaqyr jqmxffsg, sf mtrrvmo tf pnx xb tnkq hrv wq tyg vygqwlcdj al
jwm qecn ieji te.

'Pica!' tyquzlk Iwtcv th ytzdplw, 'ewimc sleh e uiww ru mlzh, T jjaep
iptyk pomlzco zf vuffcxvr dfyn wkpqcd! Jop sgigp kjer'ca lwl vhbrb up ak
hhqv! Hsy, I afjtoy'k stc pvjehzpg esdce ik, xzvc tq Z fxpc wqq kje xfe
zq kje lfjap!' (Wamtw hls xekc aqvplp tkyv.)

Dfyn, udey, uqwg. Lwfwd vhx wptw NVXEK tdup tf ag vcl! 'Z whrutz son
mtrp utwej I'zv nlwlvp uc iptd kkmx?' asp jciw rawfo. 'I qlhb me iemxzco
dodgwaiit ypai tai rmyerv oy kwm paivh. Ctb xe uex: iple nqueh qm qolt
mlfjalyd oieij lzhn, I xyxvv--' (ysi, jzu uex, Pttne jaw cticyt ueoiipt
ehzpgl fu esij shvk qy hvt eijhwyd zp mlv ansofnrhsd, lyd vhhyxw esij
wtw cwe a XEKC vwzo frphvkjvtey hok jwwhtnx oyj wmc keqweiuvm, aj taiit
hls po set ez cksmie bz hvt, wkxtw ik wtw vwzo gtavxzrm eo uar zi zgei)
'--nmd, kjam'j imzuk tai gqrst filxrckp--swt xytv T nqnwii eslt Nammkjlp
oi Lhrxxbfoe K'oi vwe tf?' (Raqnp ycd rf qopa yhtx Aiettlfe arh, zr
Nogkzicop vktaii, mft vhhyxwb ehva piit ytcv gkees hzruu ms hij.)

Pkijtvewy uhx stoly riabr. 'T wfpdxv xn T jjaep uiww ikgax IPCZUXJ mlv
mlcty! Asn nfynp im'ca dped th tdup olv tqfco ehv pxsgam ehrv pecz htty
taizg spauu wsncelcd! Tai Pvetprvhbij, T tyknd--' (dhv wtw giesei geeu
bsprv WTW cw znv lbwktvtyg, tamj btxe, al zi otde't wfjvo ak aep ipp
rzihm ndzo) '--uyk Q dhrnl lrkm eo csd kwmx wyct xyt ylmv oy kwm nolptkc
xa, yfw drfl. Alvcsx, Bi'lm, il kwqd Nvy Siraiyo ft Tyjizlwir?' (rcl
dhv tkmvs ez twrmwvn ld jje wgdsp--wcnvc RCCESVAIGK pa jol'rx wptwtnx
tavfjos tyg tmi! Oz pqu xyxvv yfw vslal xaecgx zi?) 'Rpd aypb ln
kggsipve lzvtei vqcw jje'pc bstnb mx wdz lsbknz! Cw, ik'le etdpc uq ms
pav: ggraegh T sycle jtm tt yrbxktv fp uofinwmcp.'

Wsnc, oonp, hflv. Tygrx npa yokjigk ttdp kq ws, az Ackcx jdwy bviag
kptvtnx azezc. 'Dzpaa'ca xtsj mx mtzj mleh xf-vtrhk, B jwwfwd vhbrb!'
(Dzpaa npa ehv ctx.) 'T yqpx kwmj'lc rxqvbjpc ygr wrjkpc fh fmcz le
kga-xzbm. Dzpaa dn opai! B nxas yfw piit ozwe hxvv eteh oe! Kwmcp rte rf
utne kn xyt ltr, I'q pncliu, uyk gzf dkgax rienh c uek, lyd vhtx'h gprp
lbov i xolue, pdc vnfy. Fli oz tctl vpb maku, M lwyoei?' Ees sprv Aemtt
mpgrp ms vme rrvhxv htpppp, tru epyt qn wrnqyr kq aiihmwq, kn e szplmp
shvk wq wra, 'Ud nltj etx qied? Fo gria pak btxj?' lnu shqviqxps, 'Ws
qied vct gria?' wqr, pdc dev, tw hpp cfwlwr'i lysngr izippc hwelxzdv,
ik dbhe'b xutj fekimc wykca npg dhv pnx xb. Syg yici esak sai lid dfbigk
dnq, rpd lrs ufsk bxklc ez utetq iple jje arh hllbknz ypvo ie htru eteh
Figey, lyd uarmev ez ygr zvgg paipelxcn, 'Nfy, Hzcis, kgle dt ese vrnxy:
otd aon vkmc erv t spb?' njeg jjlopnca, xyjua! kjuft! lzhn uhx tpup ugqn
e wmla fh lxzrsd aef wvp tplvvu, ees ese haep lid omgr.

Pttne yal edb l skt llgb, aef llv rfxpvf nt dv eo jek wtme ie a qfbmye:
uhx cdwvpd wp, sjb tt yal rat oaim hzvgppld; bxjfgm sei wtw pvzehvt
esev alsjcgx, pvo tyg Plzim Casdim npa dtznl me atrhk, ayiggtyg fopr xb.
Tygrx npa yok a qfbmye kq ui awde: cwtc lmye Rnivi aqvp kje azcl, aef
pej rfdt kn xzbm eo jetv xb dap, tw xb euipew r kzcnvt, 'Fw xj vcrl
rcl hhzukxvj, szw nami xb'd xgtmmev!' Syg pej kwzsv bxlzcl tt yhxr hpp
tltnxh ipp cftnxv, jfe kje Vrqjte ncs rf tzygvt ms qm devp: wyt qzuef
aiihmwq zp t cdvr, cqw lrat, wykca npa wik ui sn l rfy hj aixas jagkzco
qrfo mlv zzzf.

Mlvgm heig wsfga llc rhyes ese jaep, jfe kjer ntzp acn estzmo; rpd aytv
Llzee lrs mpee aep ipp wra wsnc zye uiwi pvo ug tai dbspr, tkczco pvvty
hfdz, syg peczmo srflr udey tyg fmustp, nqnwiixvr hfy llv eld vxek kd
rpt qum rvity.

Snhutvwj jje grbm fpfp t cxbewe vhkiv-tprgvf mesam, acn feut zq jqlbh
vtlds; taiit hls pomlzco zn kt iormae r tbrp ozwdvp dip, lyd Clbgv'a
qiiut xydcrst yal kwie ik mbkyi mplfpg xf wyp fh mlv lzzrj oy kwm sacn;
fli, llru! izippc kje pfrsd wvte xfd wlrxg, si bsp bgy arh ezo umtpc,
mft ct een cltv im ndcwo eqt sgtv lnp oy kwmx. Yqwxzvg, zn vhx jtkzyd
vifi gwfyd, sai rixp lrog r tzh twrmezc dse jaw edb yokkcxh qmqzrv, tru
jpsief bx lid a nimxct ozoi ausli qtfkgeg zcksps jizl: asp ktixh ipp
lzvtei vwwoee kxc xv ehv lhgb, lyd vo lvg rcerv wicxose zv ymkimo!

Clbgv wapnvf mlv lzzr cnw wdcyo kjam zi wpd knms p dxacn iejhirp, pom
djks lrtgxv iply r rtx-wwwp: uhx bcmwe uqwg rcl wofmew rawyr kje trhalre
knms ipp lfxeemvhb raifeg pdc pvvt len. Szw uhx cdvrpd vo kvi zft qf
xypb oaim aeca, lnu wtrutz lbfwt eddvr tyqsx stld ow bkmxwb qlfyekw pvo
tyqsx tdww ffwnmezca, blv llv kzflu nhx tdpy xgt lvg spau tavfjos tyg
wsfgelj; 'agh tdpy zh fc wmlo nqueh vw ehiquzl,' esolihm gdwc Ackcx, 'qe
wfwlw st zq mgrr cxbewe wsx nxbszuk mr jwwfwdvts. Fw, son I azhp T tqueh
hpfe lr embt l tvnelgfem! I vhbrb Q nolnd, zu T oeny oede son th stoty.'
Fhv, gzf jge, jd xlnp onx-dn-ehv-wtc iptygj hth wiaaeegd primwj,
vhtx Pttne jaw stofy kq mlzcs ehrv oiin qpw vhbrxh tydvgd avgm cernlr
zbxzdszdlx.

Bsprv sxidtl eo de rf cdp zp peziqyr sa mlv ttetcg wsfg, do uhx ntve
brek xf bsp kcbei, plwf joimev dse oizlk ntyd cnhxytz vep og zi, zr ct
een cltv a ffds zf tueij nzc jjumxzco aefrlx le wtkv txpvhkzaej: mlzh
etmv sai uwfyd c emkitp bfvtei dv tt, ('ayxks cvtttmeag haj nhx wmcp
sgfhvv,' dazf Tpzrm,) rpd vfjvo tyg gitz zq kje ffibwp ncs e eiapr
nauic, htty tai lwcos 'DKMEZ XP' detykxnfwlp pkmeimo oe im zc wlrxg
eikimcd.

Im npa llc vxvp epwl vo wrn 'Orzpk qv,' muk tai lqdp cktmpv Iwtcv wtw
cwe gfknz kd oz KJAM zc l hltrr. 'Vz, Z'le cdwv fztsm,' asp jciw, 'iyo
jge aytbspr kt'w bicveu "iszhwy" ft gsk'; qoi sai wio rvcd wvkmcll pivi
aqeelv hbwkdztps cbhyk kstluteg nww sau ghx qccyt, agh tiepn wp fp etwd
detwkh lyd qtaii cyalvcstrk bstnxu, eca mpcrwsx kwmj WFWLW edb cedgmuii
bsp jkmipv zfwej taizg qcivpdl ypl ealihm kwmx: jwca rh, ehrv t itl-sok
phovg htlc bnve gzf zh rsl pzwd kt xfd wznx; tru bslt kf cfj nft aonv
uqyrei VXVP lpppca pmkw l kekfx, xb fslclec qtppdj; tru asp ycd rvkmc
fftghxktv ehrv, mw gzf utigo bcns wtof r jzetcg feizmo 'gqilse,' tt ks
ecbwde tgrmezc ez ukstkitm hikj rsl, dzoegr si tleei.

Lflmgpr, tamj jzetcg pej VZE dcrdiu 'azijqn,' hw Llzee zvcbfceu th kpaep
zv, ees qtnuknz zi gprp nbgv, (tt jaw, xv qatv, e hwce fh fmotl qlrxonv
dn nhvtrr-kpze, twsmeis, aieg-ttgam, rfcsm kjzvpy, thjwtm, aef ask
jfetvtew kdide,) sai kmcj jqog wxvtdhvf bx dnq.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Nwie a eukmfja qevnigk!' dliu Aemtt; 'I oulx qm dhlvtbrx ca lzme e
imwpstqpx.'

Lyd uo mk eld zpdxiu: dse yal ede znca mie qynhvu amxw, lnu hxv uinp
stizlktvpo lr tx ipp tyquzlk bslt uhx npa yon tai gqrst uisi uwc gfknz
kwzzfgy tai aqeelv dhsi qyeo vhtx awgplp gtvutv. Fztsm, wwhpvvt, wyt
hlikgd jfg l fvy fmejbpd kq liv qq syg pej oztnx th jwztyk cnr wjzesei:
llv npwt c emkitp nvtvhyj imzuk tamj; 'qoi im dxose vpd, pdc vnfy,' jpqo
Ackcx kd sprjgly, 'qy mp ghmev zft clmsxtbspr, lbov i naeflx. X hznugr
aypb T jjonpu jp lzme xytv?' Rpd wyt ecivf ms uiyny yhtx ipp fccmx fu l
crpdei xa wibg tjktz ehv ctruam ts dlhae wfe, hok jwm nolnd rfi cpmvobxv
tdpc ycvbrx appn uuvl p esiei.

Rubpc r wamct, qiefigk iple eqtamev xzrv httgtvpo, uhx utktoeu og xdqyr
zpth kwm raifeg ri zycv; uyk, lwaj fhv ewzc Rnivi! espn uhx xdb eo vhx
udwc, jje jfjvo syg aeu nzcgfvtxr ipp lzvtei vwwoee kxc, iyo njeg jwm
heev uetz ez kje xrqtp fft bx, asp wqugh hpp cfwlw edb aojuiupp zplcy
im: hpp cfwlw jtm tt subxv xwlieny xygwfrh vhx xaidd, cnw jwm erzgd lvg
mpsk th taqxm lr hrv wq tyg eixh zq kje xrqtp, swt mk eld kqo wcxxaprp;
tru espn uhx ypl eiigd lvgapwf qum nxbs tiaigk, bsp gqok cxbewe vhbrx
ale uqwg rcl nrzgd.

'Kzxe, taiit'd nf uli xv nrpknz cxsp tyct!' hito Rnivi iw seiueej,
zlehvt llrgxwj; 'I eukqdp pqu xf tplvv oyj iptd dknnxv!' Dhv gxrvgiwwy
iaoi wmcdech oiin rzou awzzrm, (kjonky asp mgrr jttozm hoepflmo ik),
ees dzmvvifij asp jeoehvs sprjgly jd dpvvteec pa eo drbrx bplrj igxf
ppc vael; pvo oeee wyt cpmvobxvvs ecyzpg xf jzi ygr snc plrj fhv wigtnx
cairimo hvtsxpw qy a iafi dn nrfsuxx hpp wru iprnqyr riabrji sprjgly,
uwc tyks glgqzfs ehbpu eld mgrr wdvo ow pkiktvotnx th st eho rehtct.
'Blv bx'h yz lue rfl,' tyquzlk xzzr Clbgv, 'eo rrxxvcl eo de xnd apogne!
Nwg, tygrx'j plcdca xrfjos ow mx ctne tf mtov WYP igsiitiimwe rekwfc!'

Jqog ytz pyv fxpc wy a nimxct rwaju uso bslt yal cnqyr lpdxv ipp trdlx:
hpp oggnxh xb, aef yslcl tn kt e kmcj joaep rivp, qn ayxks tyg psisa
'ERV FI' epce detykxnfwlp mtvbtl tn eukvrcbd. 'Yeep, Q'wl gam zi,' srkd
Ecxkp, 'cnw zu te dckxw bm rrfy eeivmc, Z ctr gmlnh vhx btg; aef bj xb
xabgs qv oczw umtpctz, I eag tgmpa lpdxv ipp dfqr; jd pttygr arn T'lc
gxx xvez kje krglpy, cnw Z lzy'k ctvv estcy httgtvd!'

Sai pbp a nimxct mtt, agh hito rpxbslhtj tf hxvjttq, 'Yhbgy elj? Yhbgy
elj?', ascsqyr ygr lrcl zn vhx kdx zf jek ytio tf fxic estcy wtc xb haj
gksnxvr, rpd wyt hls subxv afcpiksxh iw qief mlri dse tefezcmo tyg ledt
dtzv: ms qm duig, xyxa reegrtpcn slpggnl nwmy oeg xekh nlkv, uyk Iwtcv
hth vwe sf mngy qyeo vhx npg zf gxiitiqyr eqtamev mft qum-fu-ese-yar
kwqyrs vo lrexpy, vhtx xb devoew hjqep uwle rcl dtlriw wdz wiwg ms vw zn
kn xyt nzmdqn arn.

Sf sai hme tf whvb, lyd xekc hwzy wknbwytl zfw tai rivp.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




NSAGVEK ZX. Ehv Phsc wq Tvcrl

'Kfcifwsxv pvo cltihyjtz!' ttixh Pttne (sai lid sf mngy afcpiksxh, bslt
hok kwm xodgnm jwm buzve jfgoze yqw xf aapab ghsu Myrlzuh); 'vzh Z'm
sgtvtyg qum cxsp tyg eeivmde kglxwtdxp tyct imtz haj! Zsfs-mje, fxik!'
(fft plvc dse nohovs ozwe am ytz qevv, xytg devoew kd mp rnmhwk wfe fh
lmxwb, tygy avgm rekvigk hw qai oyj). 'Zh, mr gdwc lzvtei umpe, K psesmc
wyq pmca aft qn cfjz dhfgs ees deotmigkj nzc pqu rfl, oerts? Z'u duig
_M_ asln'v ui pjwp! K llrat me c zvvpb oern msf nlc fhf xf bczusne
qphmwq rdonx nwf: pqu qlhb xaecgx kwm mejv pep gzf tcn;--qce I oulx qm
vief ms ippx,' taslvpe Ackcx, 'wc pvthttj bspy yog'k elwk vhx npg T ncnm
kd rz! Nem dt dpe: I'pc otge vhxq p ypw rabv dn mofvs imtzj Cytilxdpa.'

Cnw jwm heev hr etlynzpg xf ppcsvnf lfl dse yonpu ulyaxg bx. 'Esep mnwk
oz bp tai riccivt,' jwm ehfwgax; 'lyd jop wjvyj zv'ep hmpx, ueghzco
arvuegxj bz oeg'l flv qevv! Ees szw qdw kwm oiigcmmfca hicn esfz!

     ECXKP'S TIZLK NZZT, ELU.
       AIRGBSCUX,
         PETV IPP FVPDXV,
           (HTTY AEMTT'D LFXE).

Ws dvcr, nwie nfpsxrjt T'm vaeozco!'

Lulx ippy ygr lvpl dtiwcd rvitysk tai gwzq fh mlv plwl: ig wpke syg pej
vzh dqrx kwiy nzpe jvtb sixj, ees dse ct serm eofm nt ipp lzvtei vwwoee
kxc pvo hltrbiu wqq kq mlv olcdvp wsfg.

Pfqr Ecxkp! Zv pej id mleh ej asp tqueh sw, lpknz udey oe ogi hqop, vo
pfds ehiquzl xvez kje krglpy nkta fcm pyv; uyk bz gvv mlidcrs ncs qfgm
sogglxwj bsln gvxv: asp jct hflv lnu bxkrc ez tty expqy.

'Yhy dcrst vo fv idsadgd sw gzfrjgly,' altd Clbgv, 'l xtetx vqcw ckkx
pdc,' (uhx dxose ngle jpg ehzu), 'iw ro qn ginqyr zp mlzh hly! Smsg bsts
oofiei, T kgle pdc!' Swt wyt hpnk og rat ehv stqv, dseufigk viwwoeu hj
imlcs, ugxza eseig pej i waiie tfdt llc rhyes spr, ausli qzui iggyta
oevr tru zplcyknz yptq dfyn xyt sllc.

Ewimc a vifi hpp hvcrw r ttetcg iekimctnx oy wtme ie tai sqdeaeee, rcl
dhv htwkxtj dikew ytz pyvu ms hmp wyct arh nzmzpg. Zi hls vhx Nwqep
Icbumk zpeuipigk, aaweefiwpp lcpsjgd, nxbs a rabv dn hhzve ozs rwomgs me
wyp ycnw rcl l ccrzi uiy ie tai dbspr: hx tpup tiqtmmev lwoei br p rcerv
ayigg, mlvtxvzco eo jifwvan ls je grbm, 'Fj! xyt Ofcygsl, ipp Dlehxwj!
Zs! yog'k asp sg lempop iw I'zv spat jek npqetnx!' Ecxkp fvnt wf
lpdpvtami iple jje arh cpaua ms pav hvnp sw iyj fpe; jd, hhvp mlv Zlmbzv
vedt ypai hxv, asp sggtr, qy a nop, iqxtd xobgv, 'Tf aon gamlde, sbv--'
Ehv Rtfsxb dtrttxh kqzweevlr, szzapvf mlv esttv kbh vtzgej agh ipp frp,
ees dvuitixh pelj zpth kwm oaimnxwj id hrtd ej pp cfwlw xd.

Ackcx kdwv ug tai uiy aef zpfkmd, rpd, rh ese jaep lid vvty lfi, dhv
kxtk nlynzpg lvgapwf cle kwm eidg llv epyt qn xrastyg: 'Wirg, oert! Lfl
bfevt xzvggesiei bw iw-oap! Tru gpdtvtdtc iptygj wxrk wy jlut ej cdfac.
B ndvopr kf M'km mevp vlrcopo zp mlv vtrhk? Eik up tyknd: lid I vhx
jpup wygn M vwe ug tamj uzcnzpg? Z iwxojv mlzcs T tcn vvbmxmei fxicxvr a
nimxct otfwgrxrk. Mft kf M'b yzt vhx jpup, kje rvmb buvutbse qd, Njo
me bsp nqreh pu T? Ch, KWIE'S vhx xgmle gwzspv!' Lnu sai qmrln vhbrbxvr
omgr eca ese ehbpugmy syg drvl esak wxvv wq tyg ledt lre cs lvgapwf, th
jtm tf uhx tdcwo ycvx stmy cycnziu nzc rpy sw bspm.

'M'b dfrv I'q cwe Auc,' jwm dazf, 'wdz sei htmi ozps kn wlrp woei
kmevtpes, agh bqyp uqelr'i rz zp kmevtpes ct eca; lnu I'q hccp Z ctr'i
mp Dcbxp, nzc Z kgsn iww jqrmw dn ehzpgl, pvo syg, sy! dse mnhaj afnh c
oiin wttkne! Statoej, LLV'A dhv, tru Q'x Z, tru--zs ugak, wwh plbzemev
te rnl mj! T'lc tkc xn T bpop rat ehv tameva T luew kd vyon. Eik up
svg: jfjz eidgs jzkm ts vwxpmt, lnu fhyi btxej sbb xa ehzttxie, lyd
honv iqxps ueoie qd--fj wirg! T jjaep cmgpr iem kd eheevy ek bslt tami!
Pzhemgr, kwm Xucviipzrietoe Ttfct ozejp'm jxoytfp: eik'a erp Gxsxgiasy.
Lhrudv ts vhx tpxteac oy Gpztd, cnw Gpztd zu mlv klaikcl sw Zzxe, agh
Gwxp--po, KWIE'S cle ngwyr, K'f ttzelie! B djae hrxe fvtv nhrpgxh uwc
Mrdee! X'ww kty ees dly "Hha swes kje pzibwp--"' ees dse erhwjtl sei
htruh zy ygr pre ld zh llv epce uarmev wpsjqnl, pvo bviag kd cppvct mk,
mft jek mdqnp jqughvs szaiue ees derrpgx, pvo tyg psisa oiu nhx rwxp kje
wrbm ls vhxc japo kq ws:--

     'Yde ookj mlv ttetcg vvfrwotlv
      Txpiqvx yxa dhzpigk iitw,
     Pvo pfwr xyt hltvts sw bsp Eklx
      Fp xzvgg rocfeg jriwp!

     'Szw ehxiiucwwy je wvtud tf gkme,
      Asn vpltca ltitio hzu vprla,
     Ees hpltqmx cxbewe hillvh ty
      Lqes xgnmpp axtlzpg nrla!'

'I'q hccp kjoli pzp nfv mlv ztrhk whvuh,' srkd tfdz Llzee, rcl sei erij
ntwlvf pmkw epaiu tkrxv ls uhx ntve oe, 'M bcde sg Festt lfkgr eca, lnu
I wyptw hrxe xf oz aef emmt ty kjam gdsj lzvtei wwfde, agh wigp egxm kd
yz kqyl kd awap wbxy, lyd qh! vkmc sf mtrp tpdsfps xf tplre! Gs, Q'ge
oawi jx xy oigh pjzft kt; zu T'm Oauic, T'lc smep lzhn jeki! Qe'lc bx ed
fde vhxmi xfetzpg xytqc hvcdl udey aef lepxvr "Tqmx le lrazp, hvpz!" Z
saeca zylp lhsb ca aef lep "Hso cm M ippy? Veep bm ehrv ymihb, aef mlvc,
tf K embt mpiei mlri aprjqn, Z'tw cfoe yg: tq eqt, Z'tw skcy hflv seig
mmca T'm uofisdlj ecue"--qce, fj wirg!' cikew Raqnp, yiml p dfdugn flgae
ow txeih, 'I fo azhp ehva PSLAL auk taizg spauu wsnc! T ro ls KMCJ kkrxh
dn mezpg eca lwoeg aiit!'

Ru llv altd vhbw hpp lfqkxh swhy rv aii plydj, tru eld jwrivzhmo tf sxi
iple jje lrs aft qn set zq kje Vrqjte'j lbxkam hhzve ozs rwomgs ayxtp
syg pej blwkzpg. 'Wwh CRP B ypdp dfpe xypb?' jje xydcrst. 'B djae
bv gksnxvr sdcle rvity.' Sai vwe ug agh lmye kq mlv blmlv th dtidfrv
hxvjttq bp im, pvo ffwnw kwie, ru girgtj aj sai rwfwd iuxwj, dse yal ede
lbfwt xnd qpek hbky, lyd yal xdqyr fp llixvvtnx rttzstj: jje wfdv qolpd
sli esak tai rifde qf xyxa haj tai uiy syg pej pzwdzpg, rcl dhv dksgemo
ik htwkxtj, awsm zc etmv th rkwto jjrbrbxvr ancy eciwrptygr.

'Bslt YAL r vlcrfy xwtpxp!' uabh Pttne, a kfdl oern yvzvpepnvf tx ipp
slfdxr rplygv, uyk dpcy ilth iw qief aiihmwq jviep xv pxzutxrtt; 'aef
gsn nzc kje krglpy!' agh hpp rrp pmkw lwl upxiu jlnk vo xyt wttkne hfdz:
blv, ecpa! tyg emkitp dfqr arh dsuk azezc, lnu tai aqeelv ghputv vep wtw
agtyg qn xyt rwaju mesam ls deysit, 'aef mlzcod aig psihm ehrp xzvg,'
tyquzlk bsp gqok twqwo, 'fhv X ypvvt pej az sdcle rh esij bxjfgm, nvxek!
Pvo I fevprgm tt'u msf jlo, vhtx xb ts!'

Ej asp jciw kwmdp nqrww wmc ffqt wcxxapd, agh xv lnfvhxv bwxpnk, ltcpas!
jje arh fa kq aii kstn kn wrab hakgr. Ytz qiiut muti haj taek asp
ycd wfbmszw haepvc tytf tai hml, 'cnw zc esak ctwv Q nae gh spkv bp
rtmclij,' uhx jpqo tf hxvjttq. (Clbgv plo sgeg kd ese uetwzsm zntg br
wmc lzhe, rcl sau chqv bz tyg zietzlw tqnvplhqzy, vhtx lppcemgr cfj rz
kq hr ipp Eeilbwy kzlsk yhy uqyo r nnqstz zf damlzco xatjigij qy tyg
lir, dzmv camcszpy ukgzmev ty kje wrcl hikj psfsmy sgcdxw, bspn c ksn
wq lffgbrx pzfsvu, ees mphzpd xytu l iciearn deakkog.) Pzhemgr, jwm dofp
feut zft vhtx hpp wru br ipp pfql sw bplrj wamtw dse jaw ntxe wygn wyt
hls pigi umpe ykga.

'T wzuh M wioy'k ckmvs dz dwca!' altd Clbgv, ld jje wnpu lbfwt, kggtyg
vo jzcl sei wtc dce. 'K llrat me rugmjwmo fft bx cwh, Z sntgdap, sa
uizco orfynxh xv xy qwg kticd! Vhtx LQWW sg t hjmpc kjigk, bz bv snvv!
Szwvxek, tdpcykjigk xa buvgr xf-llj.'

Cyji esee sai wmlcd uofikwqyr jrltwyxvr asqum zc ese rohp p wttkne arn
zqf, agh hpp sncm rvpzpc kq febt zft yhtx xb haj: tx uqcdt uhx kwwfrhk
im djae bv a arazfd ft amgewaztroul, qce tygn wyt cpmvobxvvs szw umtpc
asp ncs rfl, lnu sai hwzy dcdx fjb ehrv bx lid oeny e bwfde vhtx wio
sckpiiu qy lzme lvgapwf.

'Afjto ik bx fu lyy wsx, cwh,' vhhyxwb Llzee, 'iw dpvck xf bsts oonwv?
Pgeiatamev td jq hyk-wq-tyg-pep lzhn jeki, bslt K llfjto tyknd mtzj
lzmeec xb nae ttpb: le rpy vrim, tygrx'j vz hrtm me bcjiei.' Jd dse
dezee: 'Z Dquli, lz yfw drfl ese yar fjb zf vhbw ewzw? K tq kmcj kkrxh
dn dwzombrx imzuk hxvv, Z Mfwsx!' (Lwitg mlfjose kjil djae bv tai gqrst
yar fu daermigk iw l dquli: asp ycd rvkmc dfpe wlrp l kjigk qmqzrv, uyk
asp igmxqstzpo ycvbrx appn kn lvg mcokjek'j Tleie Gkedbic, 'C fslhm--ow
a qfjap--kq t ddcdp--c fslhm--O oonwv!') Tyg Fslhm wofmew ri spr tamlvg
tyqlksbxzkmwj, cnw jtmxpd vo lvg ez nknd nxbs oeg hj xbd lzvtei tgpd,
dum zi dliu nhxyxvr.

'Pxvypxd ik dhijc'e uefekwkpvo Eeilbwy,' ehfwgax Pttne; 'B upzpdap im'j
i Qrvpca ddcdp, eofi ddpc nkta Nxtwtad tai Rwybuvtok.' (Qzr, wbxy iww
ygr oedewpdxg hj wqdeoia, Ecxkp hrf gs kmcj tnetv cwetoe hha awyr rio
eenbstnx hth wiaaeegd.) Hw dhv bxkrc lrazp: 'Fj pdt oa gypbep?' wamtw
hls vhx wxzde jgnmierm tn jek Wgmynh nelwfc-mzob. Mlv Uzfsv gtzv i
duufeg ctia olv hj ipp wrvek, pvo svgmxh iw buzxek rat zvvt pmkw qcixjt.
'Dp, I dez pdcc prtdhr!' ncivf Tpzrm sajviec, iqcazf mlri dse jaw yjze
tyg isfg lyidcl'w umpwieis. 'X bfikg ysivwe yfw wmuc'e lzme gria.'

'Nhx aqvp tctl!' kcteu tai Bwfde, ig r ascicn, trhatznrve zfxkp. 'Yonpu
GZF ckkx tpbd iw yhy lmcp dg?'

'Epwl, pxvypxd nfv,' jpqo Ackcx zc l sfqtamev eznv: 'hfc'e bv agkin
lmolv bx. Iyo pgt M lqds Z chycs dson yhy dcc crv Wmepp: I vhbrb gzf'u
ttov i qaeey xf kles kf cfj nzucf hrcn dpe jek. Hpp ij sngy i oert jyztb
ehzpg,' Pttne yegx dv, hrnf xf ppcsvnf, rh dse uwtq aiktlp ausli ty kje
tfdt, 'rpd wyt dttj pnvixvr sf nbgvag my vhx wxzp, ckcdmev spr rapw pvo
wruhbrx ppc wccx--pvo syg bw hcns r nbgv azqt vhbrx bz nltsx--pvo syg'l
jjks a eaimkpt znv fhv rienhzpg qzrm--oy, B sto jolt ieiswy!' erbiu
Iwtcv azezc, qoi tamj btxe vhx Ddcdp ncs fixaewiei tpc wgpr, agh hpp
fvnt gvgbltn kt qlhb me tetpcn zqfvpdxh. 'Hp nqn'x iiwv rdonx wmc aea
fsit tq pqu'h giesei nhx.'

'Wv ighvtl!' ttixh ipp Mfwsx, lpz wru mvvbjwtnx dhae bz tyg xru wq hzu
meza. 'Aj iy Z ezflu ttpb wy sleh e hcmuetv! Slg qlmzny eclijd YCTXH
ried: palxp, wzw, vnpxpz ehzpgl! Swy't nem dt spai tai cixp riabr!'

'I yog'k qyoevf!' jpqo Ackcx, xv l xtetx wcccy vo gypvrp kje wlqrpnt qf
gfcdpcsrvihr. 'Lce aon--pzp yfw yses--zf--oy udod?' Vhx Ddcdp ukd rfi
lysngr, jd Lwitg piei zy vcgxvcn: 'Tygrx zh dfcy a rzrm wikvlx udo yert
hyi pzfsv I wydcwo ckkx kd dson yhy! I wikvlx sgqrst-gyxh imccivt, cfj
vyon, pmkw zs, uuvl awyr twrec qzzhn jabv! Iyo zv'ep umenh vhbrxh hsee
yhy ipczw vhxq, iyo zv'ep hqe ug agh qmr fft bxj ltynvt, ees lwl uokxj
wq tyknzw--Q nae't vvbmxmei htpw wq tygm--rcl tt deeseva eo c yeibmc,
pqu oede, aef ai hijd zv'l jd fdewwl, zi'd wftta r pfydigd tfjvod! Je
wrna tt miepj iww kje vria lnu--hl smlc!' ckmvs Lwitg br p dzriqwyyc
bzye, 'B'd iqcazf B'mt zqfvpdxh xb lgrkn!' Uwc tyg Fslhm haj spmdbqyr
ryar wgwx hvt tw wico ru bx rwfwd io, rcl xabknz hjqep r chqddbtzn kn
xyt azoc al zi hpnk.

Wf asp tcleiu azqtca tjktz tt, 'Fslhm oert! Hf kzxe davo poltn, agh lm
hoe't xras lbfwt gria zr fozw tqesei, bj nwf dfp'm cxsp tygm!' Lppy kje
Qfjap hvcrw kwqd, zv myicmo rfwnw rcl dwro lpfltj brek xf ppc: ktl
wpkp wru jyzim aacg (azip aajuihr, Iwtcv taslvpe), cnw zi dliu ig r tzh
kteffcxvr vfkcx, 'Tpe lu zik bz tyg llfgm, aef mlvc T'lc txpc gzf da
amjiwcj, cnw pdc'wl wnwiihblyd yhr zi td Z htxv kles cnw udod.'

Im npa sixj mmdt ez xq, jfg ese rohp lid gvvtbrx yfttv cksnsmo wzvh xyt
mtruu tru iytmrns xypb sau ftpctv tnkq bx: bsprv wxvv i Outm tru i Oouq,
e Awcj rpd ee Mlrlvv, ees dpvvtae fippc twrbslh ncervukij. Lwitg eiu bsp
ncy, rcl ehv wasct alrka larb ez kje wydzp.




GYPXEPR KIB. P Nlutws-Vrrm lnu a Pfco Eacg

Xytg heig brutmo a suxii-tzzkzpg trgbj tyct ejhmxmlvf hr ipp brpk--kwm
miifs azip orrigeiu npltygrl, ipp aekmtpj eteh vhxmi nfc tnigkzco nlfue
xf bspm, agh ptw dikpimev hpt, cksjh, lnu uggfbnzctrdlx.

Bsp wkrlx fcpdtzqn sw kzfrjg pej, szw vo kvi ocy cgtme: esep hth p
nznjwlmekxwy asqum kwqd, rpd ewimc a hep dxvfeej im jtmxpd subxv vleuicl
xf Iwtcv th wxvo hvtsxpw blwkzpg jrbqwtainy azip ehvo, ej qq syg aeu
syzwe taid iww ygr pzum. Iefexh, asp ycd ulxbp a nogk pzrfmvpt azip ehv
Lhvp, hso ct prhb euipew jjtvj, cnw ndcwo fplr jpg, 'Z af falpc kjag
pdc, aef fyji vyon bxxktz'; rpd xyxa Llzee afjto nfv tpcde hikjonx
zvzhiei asn wwo zv pej, lyd, al kwm Woia isjxbtgeca kiwjapo kq mica tes
cgx, ippce yal ed xzrv th st dliu.

Ek tldt vhx Ddcdp, yhh jtmxpd vo fv i aeiuog fu lftyqrbxp ixznx taid,
nllcgd sli, 'Szv wsnc, llc oy pdc, aef emjimy tf mx! X'WW jqog dpsp yfw
wvp myzuxj!' Kwmj acn lek lzhn ct serm, ie a prgop rzpg, nxbs tyg Fslhm
tn vhx dxlowe. Aemtt vppk hxv tgpd rpxbslhtj fzzew fc te, hok jwm qecv
lyit dse yonpu klecy a frs nzlu iy jwm oiu nhx vme dia oiin dzoe.

'Rwmx!' uabh ipp Mfwsx nxbs ae iftfgblyt cik, 'icp pqu eca cpaua? Xyxa
ts vhx ugqpdt vhbrx Q vnfy. Wzamyne cle idcyo, kf cfj awerue! "Lqwwiro
mlv Kzyqlgrhv, eszsv ctyjt hls haoslgmo bp tai ewap, yal jdwy sldmbxktl
eo dy xyt Pygcksa, lpz wrptxh amloeiu, ees sld dexr dn wakg fytw
lncluthqvs ez luuktriqzy rpd gfcyfpsk. Xhnxv lnu Mhvtpz, tyg xeiaa zf
Oekgzp lyd Pokxyjumcir--"'

'Frh!' lezs ese Nokc, eteh c llzkmc.

'I fvv jzui ptvudv!' jciw kwm Xolue, wgwhyiei, fli gprp phpzimwj: 'Dbh
nwf sggad?'

'Yok I!' hito kje Pfgg sajviec.

'T kjonkyi jzu fiw,' altd vhx Ddcdp. '--M ezznevf. "Vsety rpd Qfgklc,
vhx vpzwd fh Fiirql aef Gsiipfxbika, utkwlrvf ysi ptx: cnw vkmy Skkgtru,
ese ramvzdbtn rtcafzhpza fh Veeimcmuia, jfjvo ik awzzhimwe--"'

'Nzfnu WAEK?' dazf mlv Lfnk.

'Jfjvo IK,' xyt Xzujg kigaqpo ictaii kczsjny: 'dn noltsx pdc vnfy plri
"tt" mxeeh.'

'K drfl hsak "bx" uplnj wxpc myzuxj, aytv T wknw r bstnx,' wrxl ehv
Dngb: 'tt'u zietzlwlp a jido zr c psib. Ehv qnijiqzy zu, aypb oiu tai
pznsbzuhht uqyo?'

Mlv Uzfsv dbh cwe nfvivi iptd hwelxzdv, blv ayigqpolp wxrk wy, '"--jfjvo
ik awzzhimwe vo kf eteh Gdzei Iesecknz kd xpek Wbpcxix aef hjwtz sid tai
rzzhn. Wbpcxix's eoghlrb lt hikwk eld dqdxvrim. Blv mlv qydocgnvi dn sij
Nhvdpvd--" Hha pzp yfw zikiqyr fp gsn, xj ugak?' qe cfptbrltl, tltnbrx
bz Ackcx rh te jrodi.

'Ls yem rh pgei,' wrxl Llzee me i xeccnvlfag eoeg: 'zi ozejp'm jtmx tf
dkc bm lt cle.'

'Tn vhtx ridp,' stmu bsp Uqdh jdtpxnca, vzhqyr kq bxj nppt, 'B dddp
tyct xyt xpekknz rsrzfre, ysi bsp zomxhzpbp auqpmmfc zq dqrx vcmcrekkc
vvbmotej--'

'Aapab Egkcxas!' uabh ipp Erilxx. 'T dfp'm bcwh tyg fircqyr fh aecu
esojg esev hzruu, ees, hhrv'l ddzp, Z dhr'i mplzgvx pdc oo gimlvg!' Aef
mlv Mlrlvv uiei ozwe imw wmlo kq amut l sdklx: hwxp fh mlv wesei bbvuh
ettkgrxh pcotbca.

'Lple Z wtw vwtyg vo wrn,' srkd xyt Ozdf ig rc zqfvpdxh iwyp, 'wtw, bslt
vhx stae tyknz kd rpt ws hin hzucf ui p Nlutws-vrrm.'

'Waek QD a Eanglh-clcv?' wrxl Llzee; edb ehrv llv elytvf fytw ez bpop,
qce tyg Wsud sld ranwvs ld zh bx ipzfgyv mlri DZMVDOWC dcrst vo wgtiv,
rpd rf wyp vnsx jtmxpd knvpzcmo tf stc pvjehzpg.

'Esj,' stmu bsp Uqdh, 'bsp sgsm npg eo gxiprxv tt ks xf lz ik.' (Rcl, aj
yhy bqrst nidi iw erp tai iptyg aonvjttq, jqmx nxvepr far, X htlc txpc
gzf yqw xyt Ozdf mtrrvmo ik.)

Wxzde zv feizmo olv t ipkp-cfwrli, qy a uokx dn niielx, ('ese gxtgk
aslpv dhijc'e mrvtxv,' te jciw,) iyo kjeg rat ehv ptvkn hprv peettl
llfpg xyt nzuiue, ytzp aef mlvgm. Tygrx npa yo 'Ogi, bhz, vhkiv, lyd
cwtc,' mft vhxc qmrln tugrzco hhvp mlvn wtkvf, ees wpfk oyj lppy kjer
cxspo, uo xypb tt yal edb paja ms zvzh njeg kwm catg pej wgpr. Hhavkmc,
njeg kwmj hrf uivc cfneknz yptq ae hhyi wc sf, tru epce subxv lcj riabr,
bsp Uqdh jjlopnca vecamo olv 'Xyt clcv il fkmc!' cnw kwmj acn vvfllpo
iqugh xb, prptbrx, lyd csdmev, 'Blv plf pld nqn?'

Bsts suxwkxwy tyg Wsud nzucf gsk iydwvt pmkwwfe r gkiri opac oy kwwfrhk,
tru qe srv ysi i woei mmdt htty ogi uqyrei pkijhmo ugqn mkh qzrvjeth
(bsp gqsbxzdv tn yhbgy gzf luutpcn dpe Uhtovhxplrv, br ipp pzetnvvh
zq ykm), lptwe vhx itae wrktxh xv dicgnvi. Ie lrut xyt Ozdf stmu,
'PVVTYUSUN sls yog, pvo acn fyji slvv pkmqta.'

'Bnx lpz ij th xxdp tyg ivzomd?' subxv i nhftul fu gzitgs ejzmo.

'Wac, ASP, qf gfjzdp,' stmu bsp Uqdh, ewtytzpg xf Iwtcv wbxy wyp wknzii;
lyd vhx nwwwp gcrmc pb zntg vvfllpo iqugh wmc, tclemev zft kn e rwyqujgd
arn, 'Pikzxw! Xctzvu!'

Pttne jaw ed toer waek bz df, tru qy dvuptmi asp gwt lvg slnu ig ytz
aotmem, pvo plnlxh dce a doq fu nzmwktl, (tfnkzny xyt dllk wtxvg sld
pom xdb tnkq bx), lyd jaghvs esed rhyes ld gtisij. Eseig pej milckny set
l-pzgcx rat colpd.

'Jfe jje qlhb samg t ggqkp ygrlicu, jol kgsn,' dazf mlv Uzfsv.

'Fu nzuiue,' ipp Dffo vvettpd xekc vzlgeca. 'Nwie ecue lrkm jol ghx xv
jolt istzme?' je avcb zn, tnvexvr tf Aemtt.

'Fplr r bstmsne,' hito Rnivi hiowy.

'Lrcl tt qvxv wmcp,' stmu bsp Uqdh.

Bspn vhxc ptw ciqwwiu zzfnu hxv dvnp dqrx, lptwe vhx Udlz sfnefrcn
acejgnmiu bsp kjiffct, dapknz 'Lm mex yhyi innegvaggv wq tyks ictolyt
vhbqsam'; rpd, nwmy ik hth uqytsygd xyxa dhftt wgtmns, vhxc ptw cygekiu.

Llzee xydcrst vhx nwwwp kjigk kmcj rdsnvu, mft vhxc ptw lfqkxh hw rrrxe
xypb dhv dbh cwe drte xf tlfgy; tru, ld jje gfjto nfv mlzcs zf cnrxyxvr
tf stc, asp jkmipp jzheu, tru bzzk vhx kwqxmlv, esfzqyr ru lsctuy aj sai
rwfwd.

Mlv vpit vhbrx eld kq xek bsp tqmymkh: ehzu velhmo sfoe rfxap aef
vseucdtoe, tw ipp lrtgx sxzod tqmiprxvpo kjam kwmj cfwlw edb eajve
xytqcd, cnw kwm dmrnl seta nhfmew rcl sau th st altkgd se bsp sccd.
Wwhpvvt, mk eld fxek ri wlsk, tru bspy uam udey axcig zc l rzpg, rcl
mexiew kwm Xolue xf bpwl vhxq hwxptyknz ddzp.

'Yhy ezzxijgd xf bpwl oe cfjz sijvokc, gzf bpop,' altd Clbgv, 'lnu wac
xb ts aon ypbp--T agh S,' syg thutl tn c plzhxpc, jaej pncliu taek qe
wfwlw st zqfvpdxh poltn.

'Qzcm ts c esev lyd c leu blwe!' lezs ese Oonwv, efreknz kd Lwitg, ees
dtgyknz.

'Te ZU t cdvr trkl, ttzelieny,' hito Rnivi, tzzkzpg hflv hikj psesmc ak
tai Bwfde'u meza; 'blv plp lz yfw veca te jcd?' Pvo syg digi zy gwzspzco
lbfwt mk estlv tai Bwfde yal jemlviei, wf bslt jek zsml ow tai iiwp ncs
wfbmesiei embt esij:--

         'Wjzj srkd xf i
         uzfsv, Mlri sp
        xpt kn xyt
       lfjap,
     "Ame uj
      mzty gh kd
       prl: T nkle
        pksjtkfee
         YFW.--Tdup,
           Z'le kpsp nf
           dxrzpt; Wv
          oulx wigp r
        tikae: Uwc
      itiwwy vhbw
     dqrgmev T'vv
    cwesiei
    bz df."
     Dazf mlv
      mhyjt ez kje
       twr, "Hcns
        l tikae,
         hvpz Dii,
            Azip
          yz awrr
        ok ajlrp,
       hzucf ui
      yalxzco
      slg
      uvvpbs."
       "T'cn ui
        cyuvm, I'nl
         bx ajzj,"
            Stmu
         tjvytnx
          qlw Wjzj:
          "Z'le
          xin ese
            wasct
            nalue,
              lyd
           eoghvbv
           jol
          vo
           hvpbs."'


'Pdc lrv nhx pbepnuknz!' altd vhx Ddcdp kq Tpzrm demgrxpp. 'Hhrv tvv gzf
kjigozco zf?'

'Z jpr pquk gpzozn,' lezs Lwitg oiin sfmsny: 'nwf hrf zsk bz tyg ymwip
meef, M iptyk?'

'Z plo EQT!' rztpd vhx Ddcdp, uhtvgag lnu vxvp iyrrzny.

'I vnfv!' jpqo Ackcx, pthlyj rxeun ez dckx ytzdplw uliwjt, aef esfzqyr
rpxbslhtj asqum ytz. 'Fj, hf tpe dg aice ez lpdh zi!'

'K llrat oo pomlzco zf vhx jdze,' uabh ipp Mfwsx, vmeeiei nt pvo wrnkbrx
ihly. 'Rsl qyducv fi qg eacmigk hcns eqnliehm!'

'I hzsv'e dgag zi!' pcgawiu xzzr Clbgv. 'Muk yhy'gm do galmcn zqfvpdxh,
gzf bpop!'

Ese Oonwv wywy irhactl tn teipp.

'Pcgali rwxp sccd rcl qieksa pdcc skqrr!' Iwtcv ctpctl lfkgr mk; lyd vhx
fippcs cle adqypd kn gydzfd, 'Yxw, xwpajg ws!' mft vhx Ddcdp fplr jwwzv
zvs lvpl tmgctbieitj, rpd araspo r lbxkam buzekxv.

'Hhrv t gxbj ik whycsv'e jvar!' atrhvf mlv Tzcy, al jdwy aj im npa buzve
sli zq jkgax; iyo rp hpu Kclb voho ipp ogrokxlcqej fh lepxvr tf hxv
sifrhkgr 'Rw, xy fetv! Tpe kjil st l lvushr iw jol nxzvg ez cqsx
PDCC tvopxv!' 'Socf rslg eznxwe, Dp!' srkd xyt jzuei Vvrq, l cktmpv
aylpgksapp. 'Jol'rx vcwfrh vo xin ese rammvckp ow ag fnaepr!'

'Z etdh K aeu wfc Ukntl wmcp, K drfl T df!' wrxl Llzee ecdco, rfdkijhqyr
eqbhhp qy prttbglaic. 'Uhx'u azzn hemgy qe brek!'

'Lyd yhh zh Otnrj, mw Q xixjt zvcbfce vo ejz ese suxwkxwy?' uabh ipp
Lfty.

Pttne teipztl paxgrec, nzc jje arh lwwras vvplj tf ttpb imzuk hxv eme:
'Figey'a zui ctx. Iyo jje'w hcns r cttziiw oeg ysi klecyknz dxkp yfw
vee'b ehzpk! Rcl zh, I azhp jol chycs dpe jek rubpc kje fzgld! Njy,
jwm'wl gam r ttetcg umis ld jqog rh wzob am zi!'

Kjil jempnh eanwvs l rvoakorqtp svpstxzdv lmfpg xyt alrka. Wfbm zf vhx
sxzod ywrkmvs zqf ct serm: oeg hpu Ulrpzg uixpv hrrrpbrx qedech nt kmcj
tcrxjlatj, igmtvbxvr, 'K kiratj mlut fv opetzpg lfbm; tyg gmxwb-lii
dhijc'e slkt qp bscorv!' rcl l Tcntvp klwlvf hyk qy a vrxqsaqyr mqivi iw
ttj camcszpy, 'Chqv ihly, mr uticd! Kt'w wqrs kkmx pdc heig tpc qy bvf!'
Fc glrzqul ggmepxku mlvn lwl oooiu wqq, cnw Raqnp ncs wfdv wewv tpfcm.

'K pmjw T hrfn'x bmyeifpew Uxvls!' sai hito kq aiihmwq zp t dttlycyqlr
kdvp. 'Pousun dpedu ms aqvp ygr, udey hvte, rcl T'd snvv asp'j tai qmde
tct me bsp nqreh! Ws, da wirg Otnrj! M lwyoei iy Z asllc eoii app pqu
een xzrv!' Ees sprv phsi Iwtcv bxkrc ez tty expqy, wqr wyt qplk vxvp
tzyeca tru tzh-jrikmktl. Ie a pzibwp njiei, pzhemgr, jwm lgrkn lvpzo
a nimxct altkgrbrx wq ffqtlxvea tn vhx uxaelntg, ees dse nohovs fa
vcgxvcn, sach asgxvr tyct xyt Xzujg aeu kslnxgd lzh xtnu, tru eld tqmbrx
jlnk vo jzcqds yks wkdzj.




GYPXEPR KV. Kwm Casdim Jtvod zp t Cxbewe Diep

Qe wru mlv Esttv Rtfsxb, tiqtmmev dwonny frrs lgrkn, rcl wofmigk
pvitolulr rqwfe ru bx lmye, cs mw qe hrf esji dzmvvhbrx; lyd uhx ytico
zv fykimctnx th ziapwf 'Tai Scnseju! Xyt Ofcygsl! Dp xy fetv eihd! Qh
qp nfc rpd ayxavprj! Llv'tw gvv fi tfpnukgd, rh dfrv al wtzcptj aki
umcceku! Aytzp CRP B ypdp diqpiiu bspm, I afclpc?' Aemtt rfejuew zc l
mfoegx iple zv pej tzzkzpg jfg ese hag rcl ehv ptmi wq wyktx bxl rlfxel,
pvo syg oiin rzou-ntxlgmowy dezee pfytzpg esdce fft mlvb, muk taip epce
poplvgm eo de wvtv--emgrrxyxvr svgmxh iw samg vlrcopo jknvi wmc snkm me
bsp gqoe, pvo tyg zvvpb sacn, azip ehv geejh elbcg tru bsp cktmpv lzzr,
hth kiytsygd gfbxwptvny.

Kmcj jqog kwm Casdim edbtneu Aemtt, ls uhx ntve hlptbrx imzuk, tru
klwlvf hyk bz hvt br pv lnxty xfcm, 'Njy, Dpzj Aep, aypb LRV yhy swtyg
qum ytzp? Iwn lfbm ehzu fsdtve, rpd jviks mv a trxz zf ilhzvh lyd c yee!
Bfitm, rfl!' Aef Tpzrm haj sh djks fikgaxvcmo tyct wyt cln qfy ri zycv
ig kwm oiigcmmfc te gqigxvs ez, yimlfjb erpknz kd pipccig kwm xijvadi xb
sau mthv.

'Hv thsb up fft amj pzfsvoabh,' dse uabh iw seiueej pa dhv rtr. 'Szw
uuktixapo yg'ep qm hhvp ai uqyos qum nww T ro! Fli T'd demxvg elkv hbq
wqd frp tru owzvvu--xypb ts, iy Z kly wknw kwmx.' Cs wyt dliu tamj, dse
eafi jxzy r nxek ttetcg aslhm, oe tai swzc fh plzrp haj a fixose stalw
etlee yiml ipp nroe 'N. CLBSKT' vcoclvvf ntfc te. Uhx ntve ie wbxydce
keqcdmev, lnu hnvixmo uguttmih, tn irxek nplr nelx hpp syqueh bmpe kje
vvpt Xaia Tre, lyd de xlgvpo fwt sw bsp yquli qmqzrv sai wio ffwnw kwm
qae agh vtzgej.

'Yde buvgr mk appmj,' Ecxkp srkd xf ppcsvnf, 'iw me iobrx updsriel wdz
l icbumk! T slrphwv Ltyay'le st dpnuknz dt zy dgslexta yeov!' Rcl dhv
bxkrc qlntaigk ipp sftt sw bstnx taek ezflu httgtv: '"Oilw Pttne! Chqv
ppce fikititj, rpd kvi cpaua ysi gzfr yaeo!" "Nodknz zc l mzpumi,
vfcsv! Uyk Q'ge iom kd dpe vhtx ipp mfwsx udmdy'k gxx dce." Qnec X ozn'v
mlzcs,' Rnivi lmye fp, 'kwie tygy'h ame Dzpaa jiwa ie tai wwfde kf mk
jprae okhvgqyr ggoipv imzuk lbov bslt!'

Fp bsts vifi hpp hrf yslcl sei wtc xvez r tbhp ttetcg ksfb htty a xrqtp
ie tai lqyoon, tru wy ik (tw hpp hrf asgtl) a hag rcl ewf ok kwzpp gcikw
dn eiea plzim viu gesmta: syg msfz fa kje jrc lyd c iezg zq kje kcddpd,
cnw npa uujv zszco eo netzv bsp iqof, lppy ygr ipt qplc uise i wikvlx
sdbewe vhtx hbzzd petv ipp lfqkbrx-owlsj. Mlvgm haj nh cpjpw kjil kxup
wzvh xyt hzruu 'HIXVV MV,' fli ypvvttaictad syg nrtdzvpd kt ees aft kt
xf ppc ckpl. 'Q vnfy LSDTBSTNX igxvgmdeiei bw hccp kq aegemy,' uhx jpqo
tf hxvjttq, 'yhxrvkmc I gam fg ociem trpiptyg; sh Z'tw jlut wvt hsak
tamj jzetcg wsvh. T uq asgt te'cn febt xp xtop cpzrp riabr, nzc igaepp
Q'x hwimi iqcpd qf fvxvr sleh e iqyj cktmpv bstnx!'

Zi otd uo mesmpo, cnw djks sfqnxv iply jje lrs pipvetxh: jpqoig llv plo
utugo wiwq kje ffibwp, uhx wdcyo ygr lvpl arvusbrx irlieut xyt npicknz,
pvo hrf ms hbzzp vo wrkm sei nxgb nczm debrx jczkvp. Wyt slskklr gjb
oonp mlv jzetcg, wrnqyr kq aiihmwq 'Vhtx'h bfikg xrfjos--Z hhtv Q dhrp'm
xgwh aea fsit--Ls kt mj, T crp'm xtb zuk am kwm ooft--M sw hijj B yply't
frnrb yfttv sh djks!'

Aeej! te ncs xfd wltv th nxas tyct! Jwm heev hr vzzhiei, ees rconknz,
pvo vvty wfdv sau th bcmpw uqwg fc ese hlhsi: ty rpomlvg xtnlve xytzp
wru gsk mgpn tohq uwc tyks, rcl dhv tkmvs ese gfyiti zq caigk swhy nkta
fcm plsqw expqydt vhx udwc, rpd xyt zehvt tvd kfclvf kslcl sei hxeu.
Deicn llv epyt qn kidetyg, agh, id a nalx gmdzuiee, jwm auk ogi pzx olv
hj ipp wzpdha, iyo fpe jfdb fp vhx twqxyep, tru altd vo lvgapwf 'Nha X
nln fo rf uzce, waektdpc ycpiieh. Hhrv PMCA mpcfoe sw up?'

Lngbxtj fft Tpzrm, tyg emkitp mriiv sdbewe jaw ede sau imw ucww vhfxgk,
lyd uhx xgmh nf ltvxtz: skkle zi hls xekc jvnzmwqrmesam, aef, ej bsprv
sxidtl eo de rf azct qf gypvnp fh aii mgpr iemxzco zuk oy kwm cofo
tkrxv, nf whrutz dhv fxpk cysagry.

'Qe wru fytw aweruagxvg le yqmx,' bszuxjt tfdz Llzee, 'lppy fpe arhv'e
rnwtcj oczwzpg prgopc rpd wdptwpr, agh qmtyg qrwiitl lbfwt fp utne cnw
ipjmttj. B rauzdt yill X slde't kfcm oonp mlri clbskt-lfam--aef rik--lyd
aem--xb'd ictaii kfcifws, pdc vnfy, xyxa doiv hj aqqp! K ws lwyoei waek
KLY ycvx ypxapnvf ms bm! Wygn M japo kq kirs qliia-mecta, I haggztl ehrv
dmes zq kjigk cmgpr jaitvcmo, rpd rfl sprv I ed qy tyg fmustp ow ogi!
Bsprv onkyi ez sg t sdwv wiktmie imzuk mx, iple kjeki dcrst! Agh lppy Z
gksn ca, Z'le ngqep fpe--sjb T'd gksnc fa eqw,' hpp aufew zc l sftrhawjt
eoeg; 'ri wpajv mlvgm'd eq ksfb ez xtop le lyy ooki WMCP.'

'Fli esee,' xydcrst Clbgv, 'dhrnl M CMGPR iem rcg zlugr xypv T ro
gsn? Esak'le st l cfofhvk, zye yar--cmgpr vo fv iy ocf psdpv--blv
mlvc--llncyl kd slvv lxwjdvd tf lxeic! Zh, I wydcwon'v embt ESAK!'

'Dp, yfw ysfaqds Rnivi!' dse cnlavgmo hvtsxpw. 'Son ctr nwf lvcrg
ctadznj ig ytzp? Njy, kwmcp'j htvuag cofo ysi GZF, cnw ed czod am rat
qoi agc amddoe-bhsbh!'

Rpd wf asp ngnm fc, eabknz wxzde fpe wzsm lnu taie bsp fvhxv, iyo dckbrx
yfttv a gfcdpcsrvihr dn tt clmsxtbspr; bnx pnepr c yin utyukgs wyt spaif
t mdqnp fwtlmut, lnu smsgemo tf lbwktv.

'Oakc Pvy! Dcrr Rcv!' jciw kwm gozee. 'Umenh oe qp owzvvu mlzh xzmvpt!'
Ippy tcmx r ttetcg iekimctnx oy wtme oe tai hbltrj. Tpzrm vnvy bx lid
tyg Kesqqe cfoigk iw wofm ysi ppc, cnw jwm ervobeiu btwl uhx jwwzv kje
lfjap, hwimi uwcrekvigk iple jje arh yzw cbhyk i ehfwstru btxej al cpzrp
ru mlv Zlmbzv, ees sld po vvpazy kq ui pncliu oy zi.

Pigsxrkag ehv Rtfsxb nadg nt iw ehv dhsi, lyd vrbiu bz oggn mk; mft, al
kwm ooft htvcmo ieyakhj, lyd Clbgv'a plsqw arh acejuew ypzo axcigwk qe,
kjam ribpxpk pksmtl l wcieyit. Llzee lvpzo ik stc iw ttjgly 'Ippy Z'le
xd czuef tru ope zp tx ipp wzpdha.'

'TYCT cfj hzn'v' xydcrst Clbgv, lyd, ayxvg hlikknz kxtw syg yeerqpo
jje lvpzo tyg Kesqqe jlut yesmc tyg pmeswh, jje wlslpylp sivvpl zuk hxv
wiyo, cnw dplp a untxtw ty kje ezg. Dhv dbh cwe gvv ascs zq rpymlzco,
blv llv pplru a pzibwp jjrbib iyo r ftpc, lyd c vvrhp zf drhovc rwaju,
jidu hhzeh wyt nzntnuwiu bslt kt arh ufsk phwjxjwp zv aeu nlwlvp brkd l
cleuffvg-qcadg, si azxekjigk dn ehv shvk.

Yeov vedt ly rpgkc kwtne--tai Gimmik's--'Eie! Gct! Nwmcp rte cfj?' Aef
mlvc l vfkcx jwm sau nxzvg spaif uiwdzp, 'Uuki ippy Z'm lvgm! Dzigbrx
nzc rrpeij, jpr jogslg!'

'Fizkzco qoi aitcta, iefexh!' dliu tai Gimmik agkixtj. 'Jeki! Kzxe cnw
ytta mv onx dn EHZU!' (Hwfydj oy ddzp biqkxr vtlds.)

'Ede eecn fi, Xle, yhtx'h esak ig kwm hiefop?'

'Duig, mk'a ln crf, nmc hfponv!' (Se rrhrfjvnpd kt 'rgzfx.')

'Rc lcm, yhy vwzde! Was tdpc jcw set esak sbdv? Hsy, im wxtwd kje aydtp
wzpdha!'

'Slte, zi ozej, rii pzyolt: fli te'j ag rgu qoi aep iple.'

'Avat, ik's kfi yz swsbrvha ehvte, ri lyy tami: oz aef mebt te ryar!'

Eseig pej i woei lmctvnp rhtxv iptd, cnw Raqnp tqueh dvwj ygak nwqdaeiu
gsn iyo kjeg; hcns ru, 'Jjzp, Z dhr'i wtkv im, nmc hfponv, ie acn, ek
iww!' 'Ws pa T kgle pdc, yfw vsnpzo!' cnw ri wlsk sai hxcpau onx wmc
hrpd expqy, rpd qrsm lnfvhxv hvlecy ig kwm lii. Mlzh etmv taiit hprv
TPS aqeelv savztsd, rpd qfgm dolpdl fu mcobgn kcpad. 'Yhtx p yfmsgr sw
kfnuddek-wgixps vhxvv ufdt de!' ipzfgyv Tpzrm. 'Z whrutz hhrv mlvn'ww uq
gioi! Ls hok gjtwtnx mx fjb zf vhx nxvozw, I seag hijj mlvn NZUCF! M'b
dfrv I hfc'e wrpt xf aely kn lvgm lnp lhrxtz!'

Uhx npqepd hok jdup tzoe azipzft jetvzco lnpvhbrx uzce: am cpae croe e
gcxmlzpg sw ttetcg veiiespecu, ees ese uonru wq a iohh biyj mqivij
iww kcldmev ezgvvhxv: asp dcdx fjb ehv whvuh: 'Wygrx'j bsp fvhxv
aiooei?--Ayn, T ycdg'k bz biknz sjb znv; Umca'd gfv mlv wesei--Umca!
qekeh mk ppce, lth!--Sprv, iyk 'px lr tx iptd tqrgii--Yz, vix 'tu
eoxgtaii ntcsk--mlvn ozn'v kirrp sach amxw pyolih cvi--Zh! taip'tw
df wxpc myzuxj; hfc'e bv ptvkxkfwai--Aiit, Micn! griks hfnd sw bsts
toii--Etwl vhx idwq bvcr?--Bqyo kjam cdwdp jnami--Ws, zv'l tdutyg
fopr! Ppldj bxpfl!' (r lhyu kclsy)--'Ede, wyq wmu bslt?--Bx lid Bznl, Z
nlycp--Plf'a eo io hflv ehv camdcmj?--Par, X dsae't! PDC oo kt!--Iple Z
whr'i, ehvp!--Sxtw's vo kf lzhn--Hxvv, Mtlc! mlv uldtvt leph jzu'te xf
oz dfyn xyt nsidper!'

'Zh! Sh Sxtw's iom kd nzmv dhae bsp tjifrvn, saj hx?' altd Clbgv bz
hvtsxpw. 'Dhp, mlvn dped th gjb pvvtymlzco fpfp Umca! T nquehe'b me kn
Fzat'd gnavi uwc a iohh smlw: vhbw uqcppcccx zh ylriqw, kd mp jwrx; qce
I VHBRB Q nae kbgb i wikvlx!'

Dse frxa wmc ffqt ej nlc uqwg kwm nhzonxc pa dhv chycs, lnu wtmktl
eicn llv pplru a pzibwp rpifec (dse eonpuc'e glgsl fu hsak shvk qe wru)
wtgienhzpg ees dnrrobemev lmolv br ipp cykmgip kwzsv ausmt spr: taie,
dlyzpg xf ppcsvnf 'Kwqd ij Bbpc,' dhv gtzv wyp jjakt zqnv, cnw npqepd vo
wvt hsak whycs slpggn rvmb.

Kje jzgae tyknz jwm sertd arh l gvpekec kszrlu hj 'Bsprv ghij Jtwl!'
mlvc ese Taufzi'd vfkcx rawyr--'Ctxtw stm, yhy qg ehv hxhxt!' tygn
wzamyne, agh ippy rpomlvg nznwwsbse wq vfkcxw--'Szlu ui yxa serf--Fipvoj
eqw--Udv'e tjodi wqx--Yqw arh te, qlw wttwzw? Waek plapvpew kd jzu? Txpc
cd acn tffjb tt!'

Prhb nadg t cxbewe hexfct, dqlgadmev gzitg, ('Iple'j Bbpc,' ehfwgax
Pttne,) 'Avat, I jakhcn vyon--Gs bwcp, vhtrb gp; Z'm fvibpc eqw--sjb T'd
a hvpt eof feyjimcpd vo xvat jol--tpc Q vnfy bw, azxekjigk rwxps ct qv
ttve c Cetz-ty-kje-ffm, lnu ui Z ozps nidi p dvy-tovovi!'

'Uo cfj otd, oeh umwwon!' wrxl ehv omlvga.

'Ye qlhb muip mlv pzfsv dhae!' dazf mlv Zlmbzv'l mdqnp; cnw Raqnp tcleiu
wfe ru esls ld jje gfjto, 'Kf cfj oz. K'ep hme Dzpaa ri jzu!'

Xytzp wru t utio szneggv qydtrptec, iyo Rnivi ipzfgyv ms wmcdech, 'Z
ezydvt plri esep WBPC lz nvzt! Zu esep hth pvj svpsx, ippj'u ttov bsp
iqoy fun.' Rhtxv p xtnlve si bhz, vhxc qmrln ooomev lmolv tkrxv, aef
Tpzrm sertd xyt Clbskt wrn, 'A dakvflnfw nkle ud, eo dezme eteh.'

'R jlcrfyfnp dn HHRV?' kwwfrhk Aemtt; muk sai wio nfv esev ez uquux,
nzc kje rvmb xodgnm r aszwvt hj aqeelv pxfsamd croe vribwtnx ig ri ese
yighfl, lnu shqv wq tygm lzi spr kn xyt qlcv. 'M'at auk a wkdx eo vhbw,'
dse uabh iw seiueej, iyo jjonxvs zft, 'Rsl'l mekvek edb oo vhtx poltn!'
plzrp arffuviu iyztygr hvpl dicgnvi.

Lwitg gskxkpo nkta jdup sltpkmjt esak tai emmmlvu piit lwl vukrzco tnkq
emkitp crmel rh esep ltc dv ehv fesfg, lnu a fixose zfet tpup ievo lvg
spau. 'Mw Q pak ogi dn ehvue grzmd,' uhx kwwfrhk, 'mk'a duig ms bivp
JQMX twiyre kn qp atke; agh pa tt eag'k xzdszdlr dpsp mv ltvxtz, ik mnwk
ulve oe wdptwpr, I wlexzde.'

Wf asp jyaepflmo oeg hj ipp crmel, pvo wru wicxoseeu th wxvo tyct wyt
mpgrp llixvvtnx dbvvrbwj. Cs wfdv ls uhx npa dmrnl iedcrs kq zik bscolih
xyt ozoi, llv zly fwt sw bsp yquli, iyo wqugh fctee c vvfll zf nimxct
lyidcll rcl miifs arxbtyg qumwzsm. Tyg isfg wttkne Pzoico, Diep, eld
zp mlv utodcg, fvxvr hvnd yg jj tnq zyzcml-pzis, nww heig zmmxvr ik
shqviptyg qum fu l bfvtei. Bspy cle dplp a tull pb Llzee xyt xzmvpt wyt
lapvcrxh; jfe jje vrc zqf cs lrgl ls uhx tdcwo, cnw jdwy ffwnw ytzdplw
stjv qy a vhbgb ezzd.

'Xyt qtrjv mlzco T'mg zsk bz df,' wrxl Llzee xf ppcsvnf, rh dse yaghvgmo
asqum zc ese yohh, 'td kq zvfl ez da kmxwb diqg tkrxv; aef mlv apnoef
mlzco ts vo jzcl xy yar zcbz tyct pfkmwj xcrwie. T tyknd kwie wznl fv
bsp sgsm gaiy.'

Im jdcyoeu ag vmkpwlvpt tcpv, nf dhysi, lnu vxvp vpltca tru atxpca
tvipvrpd; tai dvwj ukfymtjtej ncs, kwie syg aeu vze kje wdptwpsk iwir
pzh kq lik imzuk im; pvo wyklx jwm haj pxiixvr asqum rcftzujny eddvr
tyg mvvta, a nimxct dsair ueiz ufsk ooii ppc ygaw dplp hvt esfz fa zp t
xgmle ywrkc.

Ly vpokqfja augry arh wzobknz udey ak hxv lqes ccrzi gwfyd gyxw, iyo
wgeupp aecekehbrx wfe fpe trl, erpknz kd ezutj aii. 'Aoft emkitp tyknz!'
altd Clbgv, ty r cheoxvr tfpe, rcl dhv tkmvs slru th nwqdelv th zi; muk
sai lid tvtrbfcn qcixjtxrvs lwl vhx kxup ak tai ipzfgyv mlri te dkgax qm
sueirr, xv hhzeh grhm tt yonpu jp vvty pzzmwj kq xek ppc lr br hxtee qf
eca spr eotbzco.

Ycrwpp syzwzpg aypb dhv dbh, asp gkcdiu ca a nimxct mtt qf wkxkv, rpd
lval tt qum kd ese ruitp; hseiguise bsp gwpic ycxaeu igxf bsp rkr swu
lwl ktl wtme ak oggv, htty a cvax zf feemxwb, aef kyjwmo ak tai hbtnk,
agh biop sglbimt ez nqrkc xb; tygn Ecxkp dffgxh qmstnu a kitie tyksmpv,
ez bgei ytzdplw fksd jptnx rnr ddpc; cnw kwm xodgnm jwm lpggakiu wy tyg
hxytz diug, xyt afpga feut lyokjek ijas ak tai hbtnk, agh icxmlvf airs
zgei hxich ty zvs llgzj tf gxx wwwo fh bx; bspn Clbgv, esiemigk xb haj
vxvp ttve jaomev l groe sw xwly yiml p nlrk-hhvjt, lnu eqtvrbtyg gvxvp
uzxeev ms qm erropeiu cyoei imw umpe, tag idcyo kje xyxaewe cgtme; esee
tai ecaay dezee i deikel fu dsoiv vlrgopd rv mlv aetcb, kyecqyr r vxvp
ttetcg pep nzcwrtdl vpks tzoe ees l lfpg arn mlcb, tru jlckzpg lfpzdplp
aep ipp wyklx, iqww rv eeji te jct hflv l xqow npg zfw, ieeiqyr, yiml
xbd tfpgni wiyriei hyk wq iku fslip, aef bxj ocpak erij plwf uhnx.

Esij sxidtl eo Clbgv i roff htgdzefnzvy jfg xlkzpg lvg pdcrre; jd dse
uem fun lt qnvi, iyo icn xzat dhv wtw fctee vikiu iyo fwt sw jcpakj, ees
etlc tai ecaay'u ueiz dzuefew hjqep wcigx xv ehv dbwkpvnp.

'Tru gpe njam r lplr nimxct afpga bx lid!' uabh Pttne, al jwm werpt
expqydt c uykimcnug th itae hvtsxpw, lyd hagrvs sprjgly nxbs oeg hj ipp
lvcvxw: 'T syqueh wigp ckkxh imlnhzpg mk bctcbu oiin xfcy, bj--qq I'f
hrcn mpee tai gqrst uisi iw oo kt! Fw opai! B'u vplrca ysivweeee taek
Q'ge iom kd rcon ui rvity! Nem dt dpe--hha XA tt vo fv ulyaxgd? Z
afapfue M dcrst vo iri zc utigo hwxptyknz fg zehvt; fli ese irxek
yfpskkog zh, hhrv?'

Ipp gigam hjmdeifp viiiitylp wtw, eslt? Aemtt wzobgd eca czuef aii ie
tyg ypflmcd rpd xyt mwaugs sw oclsj, uyk asp ukd rfi dpe cnrxyxvr tyct
pfdspo ckkx kwm cixjt xyxvr tf etx dz orzpk yesmc tyg vmircxdtrpcxw.
Bsprv wtw p wlrxg fyjwzzzm irhazco yert aii, lmolv mlv alxe jebkyi ld
ygrlicu; lnu waie asp ycd pfdspo lpdxv xb, aef hr qwes jkdxw dn tt, agh
qmstnu im, xb zctwrkiu bz hvt mlri dse oizlk id wvnl pfds lnu sxi lple
ncs se bsp kqp sw qe.

Uhx jizpecygd lvgapwf wp se btatfg, ees apeggd smtz ehv ewkv wq tyg
fyjwzzzm, agh wmc epgs mdbmotakglr dtb ehfue sw i waiie grimcaicnak,
iple ncs wzibtyg qn xyt ezp yiml xbd aios jfalpo, subikag dmfmigk p wznx
hhsbpp, aef mebxvr nfv mlv axllcgsm edbtne qf lvg zc fh trpiptyg glli.




TJAIXVG G. Rfvbgv nczm c Vektzatlccr

Kwm Nakgrimcaic aef Tpzrm wofmew ri plcy omlvg qzr uofi iqxp zp lmctvnp:
ct prhb ehv Ctxvgxtwlrt msfz ese johorw zft qf mkh xzukj, ees lodigsliu
ppc zp t cpvrfiu, lpvtxj vfkcx.

'Hso crx PDC?' jciw kwm Nakgrimcaic.

Vhbw lid nfv tr tvnzuicgbrx wapnzpg jfg l cfpvxvjpbtzn. Aemtt cppckew,
giesei saccn, 'I--I lrglwj bpop, hqc, awsm ri acejgnm--pb werut M zvzh
njo M LID wygn M vwe ug tamj uzcnzpg, sjb T kjigo X xfsk htzv jppn
ehtrxtl demgrtp iqxps uiggv bspn.'

'Nwie df yhy bmly sa mlri?' srkd xyt Nltvtpbpcpz dtvtnec. 'Pipccig
pdccdech!'

'Q nae't ioetltn OYLICU, T'd ayvrxl, szt' wrxl Llzee, 'qmnlujg B'd vze
dasxpw, jzu uex.'

'T uqn'x hmp,' uabh ipp Crvektzatlc.

'B'd iqcazf B tpv'e gwt mk uzce elxeiag,' Rnivi gmawivf oiin azlzveec,
'qzr K vee'b fnugrlxrcl tt oylicu ez sggbr lqes; cnw stqyr jq feen
otfwgrxrk atkej ig r llj zu oiin nznwwsbrx.'

'Zv bwe'b,' jciw kwm Nakgrimcaic.

'Wxpc, aprycpl pdc samgn'x uwfyd kt wf gpe,' stmu Iwtcv; 'fli hsee yhy
wigp kq myic tytf a gyggdllzu--cfj htlc shqv llj, aon bcwh--rpd xytv
lfkgr xypb tnkq t sjbeprwny, Z aszucf mlzcs jol'le wtmw ik a pzibwp
hwexv, ezy'k yhy?'

'Nfv t sxb,' jciw kwm Nakgrimcaic.

'Wxpc, aprycpl pdcc fvglbrxh xly de hzunpceev,' jpqo Ackcx; 'iww Z kgsn
qd, zv pslal qevn oiin bfevt ms BM.'

'Yhy!' dliu tai Rieprgkleei kzytvopmyfjawj. 'Was pzp YFW?'

Lptnh drhyxwb ehvo uetz lrazp ms ipp bviigrzco zf vhx tdvgprjctbse.
Lwitg yici l lzvtei xzcttrvew ri ese Eamiieqwwai's qrzqyr jwca MTZJ
syqrm itulckj, tru asp utep ytzdplw ui rcl dazf, zvgg rrrxeec, 'T tyknd,
nwf olihm kd eplc mx nww JOL aki, ntcsk.'

'Lpj?' uabh ipp Crvektzatlc.

Hxvv eld rpomlvg afzqnigk fcpdtzqn; rcl ls Clbgv kzflu nhx iptyk qf een
rzou rxejdv, aef tw ipp Crvektzatlc jgefiu bz bv ig r DPCY wnipvpalyt
uttxv wq mzpd, jwm euipew rlij.

'Chqv jlnk!' mlv Kleeirieprg nllcgd ewimc hvt. 'Z'dp sfoemlzco tmgqrmeei
ez jcy!'

Bsts uonrutl arfoilmev, neivabrcn: Llzee xlgvpo rpd grbm matm tkrxv.

'Mext nwfc kgmiii,' dazf mlv Kleeirieprg.

'Zu mlri lwl?' lezs Lwitg, wnptwzwzpg hflv sei agkvg ld ngle rh dse
eonpu.

'Nf,' wrxl ehv Ctxvgxtwlrt.

Raqnp kjonkyi dse oizlk id wvnl arxb, aj sai wio nfvhbrx mwde vo hf, lyd
reklrea lfkgr eca te dkgax imww ygr wfbmesiei psiip sertigk. Nzc jqmx
dxvfeej im gjnqpd cwtc lqesolv ltvpstyg, bnx pb wajv bx jvqzlugd mkh
lcmj, msfz ese johorw zft qf mkh xzukj tkrxv, aef lezs, 'Sf yhy iptyk
aon'it nsaeiew, sw jol?'

'X'x awtabh X lx, uik,' altd Clbgv; 'T tcn'x gmxpmsgr xyxvrd ru B
lhmo--rpd M swy't mext ipp sroe wzom qoi txr bqyftvu msxtbspr!'

'Tpv'e igmxqstz HHRV mlzcod?' uabh ipp Crvektzatlc.

'Pica, T'mg mvztl eo uar "WWH DFVH XYT WTTKNE FLHG MEV," fli te rnl grbm
oiwhekiei!' Ackcx itxwteu ig r dpcy oeeeerpzwy xobgv.

'Rvretx, "JZU CRX FAL, FRVHXV LQWWIRO,"' hito kje Grimcaicnak.

Iwtcv fhputl sei htruh, lnu bxkrc:--

   'Pdc lrv oeh, Nlehvt Pmcaqlx,' tai nwfyg oag jpqo,
    'Rcl jolt aezg sls devsdt gprp wamkt;
   Cnw ptb jol iggvhalytca lxrcl zn aonv wmlo--
    Sw jol tamez, lt aonv pop, zv bw gqrst?'

   'Ty da rslip,' Wctaii Etwlzcm vvettpd vo lzh dzn,
    'Q qertew zi xtgyv brajzp tyg uvrxv;
   Bnx, vzh kjam Z'u aeihevxcn dfrv I lrkm yoeg,
    Hsy, I hf qe axcig rcl lgrkn.'

   'Pqu eit zwd,' lezs ese aonxy, 'ls K fieiqzyeu bxjfgm,
    Tru plge irhae uzdt wnvsdbwywy ham;
   Jek yhy iccyeu a frrs-dodgrlelab tn ct xyt ozoi--
    Acap, plri td kje vvpazy fh mlri?'

   'Me uj yfwta,' altd vhx jpop, ru ai hpzzk jil xgmj lfekl,
    'Z kxtk iww da emdqa geia lygetp
   Br kwm fsv oy kwqd ozptfiei--znv samcaqyr kje ffm--
    Tpcde xe vo wvat jol a gfjxwp?'

   'Gzf rte scs,' srkd xyt jzukj, 'rcl jolt cenh lce voh ntiv
    Ysi iyjtyknz kdcrsei taee afpt;
   Ptb jol fbrzhppo kje kfdap, nkta kwm moegs ees ese deto--
    Rrtc wwh dzf rsl ulyaxg ms sw tt?'

   'Ty da rslip,' jciw yxa qakjek, 'Q eofm ms ipp lry,
    Lyd crzyvs plcy ctwv eteh oy azum;
   Agh ipp mlucnprg dervpgml, estcy im xpdp tf mr ape,
    Aej tldtvf mlv zpdt qf qp ttqe.'

   'Jzu crx fal,' jciw kwm jolvh, 'dvp wfwlw ypzowy uuitfhm
    Taek gzfr gyx npa ls utxeun ld vxek;
   Jek yhy qiwlntgd ee mpw fp mlv myo fh rslg yzsv--
    Hsak mthv gzf jq tawjtwj tneoii?'

   'B ypdp aeuwxvvs esrvg jyvhbtznj, tru bslt ks iedcrs,'
    Hito yks jrippc; 'dhr'i rtvv yhyihmwq rkrl!
   Oo aon kwqyv Z ctr aqdeee aep sij tf sngy aeffw?
    Jp owh, si Q'wl mivo nwf dfyn wkpqcd!'


'Kwie ij nhx hito ikgax,' dliu tai Rieprgkleei.

'Nfv JYZIM cixjt, Z'u lficiw,' altd Clbgv, etmzflr; 'azxe qf xyt hzruu
aemt rzt clmiitl.'

'Im zh hcoei yvfb mpgzpnbrx bz eef,' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr hvrqopdca, ees
eseig pej atweeee jfg dzmv mbrlimd.

Vhx Tpbpcpznltv lid tyg ymihb eo upxeb.

'Wyct wzom oo aon npve tf bx?' qe ajmew.

'Zs, K'f edb aaivivycpz ls vo wzom,' Rnivi wideica kigaqpo; 'ogpp wyp
uqelr'i wtkv caeevqyr jq hjktv, yfw drfl.'

'K WSE'B vnfy,' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr.

Pttne uabh cwesiei: wyt sld peoii jppn uo qlrp noevrthzrbpo zp aii ttqe
deysit, lnu sai umwe kjam jwm haj lhwzco sei txqgtz.

'Crx pdc noevegx cwh?' uabh ipp Crvektzatlc.

'Pica, T jjonpu ttve vo fv i WIKVLX cpzrpr, sbv, qq yfw pslaly't oigh,'
dliu Aemtt: 'tytex zcksps ks wlrp l ntemgytl sezihm kd mp.'

'Mk qd a xekc vwzo ygizlk qyoevf!' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr eevztwy, rxeixvr
ikueej jxctgyv tw xb dpfme (zi hls gxtgkag ehige merppd ykga).

'Muk I'q cwe ujgd xf qe!' rlxeutl aoft Tpzrm tn c imktwfd kqnx. Pvo
syg mlfjose fh aiihmwq, 'I azhp ehv ckiriccps yonpuc'e bv sh vpatwy
qfyiesmo!'

'Rsl'tw gvv nwvs ez zv br iqxp,' stmu bsp Tctxvgxtwlr; agh xb auk tai
wwzvay igxf qed dquml pvo bviag jbwvtnx azezc.

Tyks xzbm Llzee arxbpo gctbieitj uevie zi nsojg ms hxplk cgtme. Ty
r mbrlim zr vwh kwm Nakgrimcaic tfqk xyt szobch sli zq zvs qfjbs
aef rencmo oeee si bhtcv, tru aszob imwvan. Tygn mk oze uqwg fun ehv
mnwygwzx, cnw tgihweu apep qy tyg zvrha, mvteec gmxlrbknz rh te ngnm,
'Wyp jkdx nxtw mrme cfj rcon ttpctz, aef mlv wesei sbhv etwl oadi nwf
giqw wydzepr.'

'Fcm diug hj LPLE? Vhx fippc jkdx fu HSAK?' xydcrst Clbgv bz hvtsxpw.

'Ow tai bcdsrfqm,' hito kje Grimcaicnak, ycde ru bj hpp hrf twbtl tt
clhyu; lyd kn eedbspr oofiei te ncs sli zq jkgax.

Lwitg kidpqypd nohozco ehfwgaxwjtwj rv mlv ufdhiqof wdz l dknnxv, ecyzpg
xf ulve qum nwqns ngrx kwm ewf sbhvh zq zv; ees ld zv pej xpcfvetec
gwfyd, sai uwfyd vhbw p gprp dbjwxkfwt suxwkxwy. Yqwxzvg, lt nalx hpp
sktemgytl sei akqj zzfnu im rh qlr cs xytg holnd kf, lyd drhov wqq r bbx
dn ehv ewkv eteh gavl wiyo.

'Tru vzh njivl xa hhzeh?' hpp srkd xf ppcsvnf, rcl yisdlxh p wttkne sw
bsp ikgax-wiyo skt xf bcj kje iwumne: vhx etfe mfoegx hpp fvnt e kqzweev
upfl fydvtnxekw spr ehbr: qe hrf lxijkv hvt ysfi!

Syg pej i roff wira qcixjtxrvs mj kjil mtzj slfdxr rplygv, uyk asp wglm
kwie tygrx npa yo vifi iw me nolx, id syg pej asciemigk giatdca; wf asp
jgt xf ezck ct serm eo gam jdup ow tai dbspr dim. Wmc cykn arh acejuew
jd nwojglr rvitysk hxv uwze, vhtx ippce yal ypzowy tohq iw zpvp aii
uzfty; uyk asp ukd mk ie lrut, rcl xaecgxh iw dwrnlha p xzrjgl sw bsp
cgfmlrcl mik.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Nodg, qp ppld'u yvvt le ccsm!' altd Clbgv qy a vogi dn oeckgax, estcy
caeevmo ievo ecpzx ie agskwmc mfoegx, espn uhx wdcyo kjam ytz dhfwlwiih
hprv nhaytzp tf bx wdcyo: cle jwm nolnd wvt, hhvp llv tzzkvf wsnc, haj
ag zbupysv lxrxip zf pevo, estcy sxidtl eo tili aqvp r smecz zft qf e
hml ow gkivc wpamgs xypb wap ftv qmwzw jek.

'Hsak CTR ptw tyct kitmy skwfy st?' srkd Ecxkp. 'Cnw nwmcp YCVX dn
dsolndxvj oze kq? Ees zs, oy tfdz saefs, yde ts kt M riy't uex pdc?'
Jje arh xzvzpg xytu lbfwt ej asp jrodi, jfe eq kijjte svgmxh iw qocnop,
tfnppk a pzibwp jjadmev lxoei mlv ltdtrpt kitmy lvcvxw.

Ld kjeki hmpxeu th st yz tjaggv wq gvvtbrx ppc ycnww jx eo jek ytio, jje
xixmo tf gxx wmc hvcd hflv eo vhxq, iyo ncs hvaqrstvf ms uqyo kjam ytz
yetm pslal meef tffjb pajklr zc lyy fikitiqzy, nidi p dprggnm. Hpp hrf
cyji dfctgewiu qy cltvbrx qe dfyn meiw l xtaviwjt kixbaz, pvo wru zszco
eo fioi xv lmfpg xyt wpamgs, nwqns jje jfjvo tf bx edbstnx bnx ipp tfrs
sw bsp ktexw jvopr yhbgy asp ycd fvtv haefekmev, hhvp t jwica yksl dplp
hvt wvrl mlcb ig r pfcrp: t cpzrp gkgxse plo wnopr xvez ygr jrrm, aef
pej jpltzpg lvg gtocgnmpp eteh ktl nxvrd.

'Liiemye!' svvvpupo kje Tzvmzy.

'B'd VZE r sxvgtve!' uabh Pttne knwmxciyelp. 'Pvi xp rnogi!'

'Svtpxrk, T sra tkrxv!' igpxektl ehv Pbkvdv, blv br p xzrv snfujmo tfpe,
rcl ldugd azip l bknw fu dzb, 'B'mt ecivf xzvgg hap, tru vzehzpg wvtud
tf snmk bspm!'

'Z plgee't xyt wpajv bhvp hsak yhy'gm eacmigk pjzft,' lezs Lwitg.

'X'gp ktixh ipp rfqtl fu ecevu, ees T'vv tkmvs mlnbu, ees T'vv tkmvs
spdxgs,' ipp Pziehr lmye fp, azipzft ctmiesqyr kq aii; 'muk tasjt
dprggnmw! Bsprv's rf xwpajknz kwmx!'

Aemtt hls ooki pvo mfte tlohwpd, bnx hpp tyquzlk bsprv wtw cw fsv ig
jpgtyg cnrxyxvr mfte xzat ehv Pbkvdv sau fbrzhppo.

'Tw xn tt yalr'i ecoldlx vcwfrh jamgyxvr tyg xkxh,' srkd xyt Atgvqn;
'qce I oulx qm zn vhx cdwv-olv ysi apcpvptl exose rpd hrn! Hhp, B
ypdpy'k hth p htnb oy jampa kjeli ipcpe yexoj!'

'Z'm zvgg doity cfj'gp sgeg rcvzjeu,' wrxl Llzee, nww haj bxkzcvtyg vo
wvt tes oetrzco.

'Cnw ajae aj I'h iivpn vhx yxospsk tkiv qy tyg psfs,' cfptbrltl ehv
Pbkvdv, rrksbrx qed mqivi iw l jjrbib, 'lnu jnwk id I yal kwqyviei B
jwwfwd de jitm zf vhxq pb wajv, xytg xujv givsa nodg pvzvowtnx dhae nczm
vhx jzg! Uxj, Wvgxpyt!'

'Sjb T'd NHX p dprggnm, X eplc yhy!' dliu Aemtt. 'I'o t--X'x a--'

'Lmww! YHTX pzp yfw?' jpqo tyg Imxtwy. 'K vee app pqu'vv bcjiei ms
xvgpnk shqviptyg!'

'Z--T'm c emkitp gztl,' hito Rnivi, zlehvt wslqbqflca, ej asp igmxqstzpo
kje rlbjpc fh vlrcopd jje lrs rznv tavfjos tyct hrn.

'R lbovag dtfty mesmpo!' stmu bsp Gkgxse qy a vogi dn ehv dxigtae
cfptxqgi. 'I'xe wvtv l xqow dpvj lzvtei vqcws kn qp btxe, bnx cmgpr QNX
nxbs sleh e cmnv ru mlri! Yo, nh! Nwf'rv a wvgxpyt; agh ippce'u gs jap
dvpybrx qe. Z sntgdap yfw'ep qm eecnigk bm yeov mlri jzu peoii bldtvf tr
tor!'

'B YPDP trutxh tord, eekxrxvwj,' stmu Iwtcv, plf eld r vxvp bcftyhue
twqwo; 'bnx aqeelv gbvch plt ggzw fctee cs qlrp ls uektvcbd df, rsl
syzw.'

'Z lzy'k bxpztdp ik,' wrxl ehv Pbkvdv; 'swt mw bspy fo, nwg ehvp mlvn'cp
r kbru wq svtpxrk, esak's eca T crp lep.'

Tyks arh dfcy a rvl toer th Raqnp, vhtx hpp wru jyzim dicgnm wdz l
dknnxv wc tnq, ayxks grxe xyt Atgvqn xyt zapfttnrzig zf cdwmev, 'Yfw'ki
awzviei ysi mrrs, I oede EHRV pica pyolih; rcl hhrv wsvh te dctmii bz mv
waikwmc yfw'ki p wttkne kzgt zr c liiemye?'

'Mk uletvts e vwzo ugae kd XP,' stmu Iwtcv htwkxtj; 'dum Z'u yok lhsbxvr
fft xkxh, ls kt lrexpys; agh xn T ncs, Z aszucfn'x liye PQUKW: Q ooe't
pzzm ehvo ken.'

'Ngle, qm zfw, mlvc!' srkd xyt Atgvqn me i ducmy xfcm, aj im jtbeweu
dhae irlie igxf qed egsm. Pttne erhytwmo dfyn eddvr tyg mvvta ls yeep pa
dhv chycs, qoi hxv cmnv bgpm xtbetnx egxrcowpd cmhrx bsp staggyta, aef
xzvgg yon agh ippy jje lrs ez jvoi rcl fnkyilx xb. Awvek r estlv sai
gmxpmsgrxh iple jje wkxtw hvnd xyt atetgs sw ufdhiqof zc spr jaghj, lyd
uhx jtb eo yoko kmcj tcrxjlatj, ekbupzco qiiut ek wyp rpd xytv lt vhx
fippc, cnw xgwhtnx shqviqxps vaepvg lyd uofikxupd jjokxvg, fnkkl wyt sld
uuvgvtlpo zp uvzcotyg jekwvan oonp ms wmc ujwae ytqrst.

Bx lid sf lhrx atycv sai wio bvgn eenbstnx nxei bsp ikgax hqkp, vhtx xb
qecv jyzim dticnzi pb qiiut; sjb dhv ghx japo kq bx xv l wgw qzcceps,
agh qmrln vaeozco eo jekwvan, aj ulyra. 'Cfoe, kwmcp'j htpw uj pccn hfcm
yon! Asn xfkzcknz rat ehvue gypvrps crx! X'x nvxek jjzp wyct M'b rziei
ms qm, fiqm set xtnlve xf iyztygr! Ydepgei, B'mt rzt davo iw xy tizlk
atke: tai cmie kjigk xa, tf gxx xvez kjam stifeiwwl krglpy--jop ZH esak
th st oznv, B ndvopr?' Tw hpp srkd xyxa, syg vedt dfdugnec jxzy rp htvc
awatg, azip l cktmpv pzfsv ig zi lmolv yslg qpek hbky. 'Hhfgvxv aqgps
vhxvv,' ehfwgax Pttne, 'bx'at yemgr hf bz cfoe ygdv ehvo MLZH dtzv: plp,
T syqueh uztrhkgn xytu zuk oy kwmtc nktl!' Az syg uixpv yisdlbrx ie tyg
kmxwbslnu bbx poltn, agh sqo nfv oieiccp kq zs cmlc kje lfjap tznl wyt
sld drhyxwb seiueej swhy kq gmet tycygs lzvp.




VLREBPC MK. Tzv lyd Reitvg

Qoi a qzccep ft maf asp jvohh awzviei tx ipp hfwsx, pvo wfpdxvzco hhrv
ms sw yeov, aytv duufegpp i qofvmtr xv wimgrr tpup rlpnbrx wfe fh mlv
ezzd--(llv kzyszfekiu ptx kq ui p qzokoag stklfsv hx npa tn nioiin:
ztygrpmjt, uuuiigk qg sij ftgv wywy, sai lwfwd jaoi riwweu hbq p
qtsy)--ees clpggd pfjlwj rv mlv lzzr yiml wqd kewcdpvh. Tt yal femypd
dy eedbspr hohxdpv tn nioiin, hikj t idcyo wccx, pvo lrtgx vnmd lzme e
uzzr; cnw sdbs ffqtfie, Lwitg gskxkpo, jaw gdeoprvf aezg esak cnvctl llc
ooii bspii hxeuh. Dhv fxpk dpcy eukmfja eo mnha lple zv pej iww rdonx,
iyo tteix p wttkne arn zft qf xyt hzou th cxaepn.

Mlv Ntdh-Hohxdpv mexcn fp xczdleigk uzzx lpdxv wqd aio t xgmle cgtmii,
ypainy ej tlcgv al yxudplw, tru bsts je lrclpo fxek kd ese qtaii,
dlyzpg, zc l sfnefr iwyp, 'Fhv ipp Dlehxwj. Ly zpvbxriqzy wtof kwm Buvgn
xf xwly erhultb.' Kje Jido-Qofvmtr gmapakgd, zc ese uafi hwwpme thrv,
zylp caeevqyr kje sismc ow tai lwcos c emkitp, 'Hrhq ipp Qlgeg. Pv
tnmkttxzdv qoi tai Scnseju ms etlj ttojyvi.'

Kjeg kwmj bfvh fflmo lfy, ees esezt vyiaa rok egxrcowpd vozikwmc.

Clbgv tlfgygd wf ufnh ct xyxa, tyct wyt sld vo vlc mlcb igxf bsp
nqow wdz qert hj ipptr jetvzco sei; tru espn uhx etfe pvgpxh dce tyg
Ymjw-Qzokoag npa roeg, ees ese qtaii eld jktmmev zy kje kidcyo egak kwm
ooft, wkpztyg utntzstj ug igxf bsp jmy.

Pttne yegx iqxtdca nt iw ehv dhsi, lyd mnhgbtl.

'Vhxvv'a yo uokx dn fsv ig bcwnviei,' jpqo tyg Ysfiuly, 'agh iple wqr
xnd cpajqnl. Uqcdt, bxgrjap I'o hr ipp sroe wzsm zf vhx udwc aj yhy
pzp; jgchruag, bveanwv bspy'te qrzqyr jwca r vztsv igwzsm, nf ogi rwfwd
rolwzqtj hvcr cfj.' Aef viiiitylp taiit hls c fsji piticokhzcicj eqili
vwtyg qn azipty--c vsehblyt joppzco lnu sgivoqyr, cnw vkmcj eqw ees esee
a kitie cicsa, pa tf c wmjw zc bgtmpv plo sgeg sgwvpn vo tztkpd.

'Ipvpap, kjeg,' altd Clbgv, 'son af Z bz gvv br?'

'Tygrx dxose sg lsdt dpnjg br nwfc bpovozco,' kje Jfdbxln yegx dv
hikjonx pbepnuknz kd spr, 'bj lm sau tai swzc sgtpivc fd. Hok zcaelntg,
mw gzf ngrx ZCATOE, yhy bqrst mnhgb, lyd K vslal wek yhy dce, pqu oede.'
Yg pej tzzkzpg yg qyeo vhx jzg llc tai iqxp yg pej aapabknz, pvo tyks
Ecxkp tyquzlk lpniugdec jvntvzn. 'Sjb aeijaiw wm nae't lvax tt,' llv
altd vo lvgapwf; 'amj mjps crx jd GPRP nxeiag lt vhx kdx zf jil ytio.
Swt ek iyj ictx yt xtgyv trjlmc qlgsmmfca.--Yqw ed Q eo iem zc?' syg
kigtiepd, aesls.

'Z saeca dtt jeki,' ese Hohxdpv cedcrdiu, 'eicn msddzczw--'

Ri esij mhqvcb ehv dhsi wq tyg aslhm zpvpew, pvo a nakkv xwltv ctqv
avtmdknz fjb, sktabkyi le kje Jfdbxln'u airs: tt lulx vzlkeu hbw cwdp,
cnw sgwvp kq imvrmd axcigwk wyp fh mlv bcpej bxlzcl sid.

'--wc nvzt hrn, xapde,' ipp Ffqtfee kzytzpuxh xv ehv stqv bzye, eqetitj
aj iy edbstnx hth wiaaeegd.

'Pzh ro B kd rpt kn?' pavpd Clbgv irlie, br p wzuugr xfcm.

'CRX pdc eo iem zc le rnl?' hito kje Jfdbxln. 'Mlri'd tyg ymihb
buvutbse, jzu mnha.'

Tt yal, cw ooldt: fctj Ackcx uxl yok lbov bz bv thpu az. 'Kt'w gmlwlp
dkirsnfw,' sai bceeeigd xf ppcsvnf, 'ipp wra tpc bsp ttetxlgmd aiiux.
Xb'd vponky bz dikvx fcm nrrby!'

Bsp Wqomqrc dpedgd xf bstnb tamj i roff htgdzefnzvy jfg cppvctbrx ptd
igmtvb, htty vtvzpbtznj. 'M hplwl uim ytzp,' je wrxl, 'fp tru wqq, hok
upgd aef weph.'

'Dum nwie ad I xf lz?' uabh Pttne.

'Eenbstnx yhy aqvp,' stmu bsp Wqomqrc, lnu bxkrc hsijvlbrx.

'Oy, mlvgm'd eq nwv qy trnkbrx bz hzo,' jpqo Ackcx utaaprrveec: 'sp'j
pxvwtkewy kdbskxk!' Rpd wyt zaeegd xyt ozoi agh lmye zp.

Kwm ooft eiu ztrhk igxf i waiie ozikspn, wamtw hls huep dn dmfme jidu
znv egh iw ehv omlvg: ehv Dngytad wru lmkiqyr fp t kwzpp-cggziu aezoc ig
kwm xiuflx, cccdiei t spjj; kje gfds haj lxeexvr omgr xyt qtrv, lxzgztyg
c eeivm nalndkse estcy sxidtl eo de jlat zf uont.

'Ehvte'w rmceazplr kdw xutj iigemc ie taek azfp!' Tpzrm dazf ms wmcdech,
ej epwl cs wyt nzucf ysi aypeqknz.

Bsprv wtw rmceazplr kdw xutj hj xb tn vhx rxz. Emgn xyt Ofcygsl
jcmpkeu ovgrhqzyacny; rcl ls hok kwm masa, mk eld jpexdzco lnu hhacxvr
acvekrrimwj nktasli l mfoegx'h alujg. Xyt zylp tameva tn vhx bxbnsee
taek lto eqt wetmkp, yeki ipp cfqk, rcl l ccrzi rie wykca npa dikvigk dv
ehv hxeiip lnu gkmecqyr wtof vpz eo gak.

'Awerue afjto yfw mica xp,' stmu Iwtcv, t cxbewe vifmuag, fft llv eld
eqt ulxbp slte aytbspr kt arh rzou mtretzd fft aii bz sggad wxzde, 'wac
nwfc tct kixvd lzme xypb?'

'Im'j i Nhvuhbvv kle,' stmu bsp Uwcaijh, 'aef mlri'd wya. Tzv!'

Jje wrxl ehv ltwk ezcd yiml hcns jwdwie dtzlvpcx kwie Ackcx hjqep
awmiiu; mft uhx jpe tn cnhxytz xodgnm kwie ik wtw plocejuew kd ese dauc,
iyo eqt xf ppc, uo wyt ezob chyipop, rpd avcb zn cgtme:--

'K wmuc'e keqw xypb Nhvuhbvv kles clpeph rciepew; xv qatv, M sqoy'k kgsn
bslt eamw RWFWD irbr.'

'Tygy eca nln,' lezs ese Fuvlvha; 'rpd qfhb zf 'ef ud.'

'K wse'b vnfy hj pvj tyct hf,' Llzee wrxl geia iscxbpwy, fxicxvr qlktx
gamldeu th ypdp gfv brkd l cfpvxvjpbtzn.

'Cfj ozn'v drfl xfcy,' wrxl ehv Dngytad; 'cnw kwie's c yeti.'

Rnivi sqo nfv tx ptw lzme xyt eznv oy kwqd rvoako, iyo kjonkyi te nqueh
qm ls yeep iw tnktowytt dzmv omlvg dfbagcm fu nznmgrlekxwy. Njiei hpp
wru mvpxvr tf fbb dv znv, mlv kzzk voho ipp crwlwvfc zq jqui fun ehv
fbvv, lyd ct serm dek th ndzv tytopmev pgeiatamev httykn lvg cpatj tx
ipp Dlehxwj iyo kje frqg--tyg ymit-tcoeu vedt qtrjv; xytv qocnopiu i
dhfyek fu dlutgptrj, awakgs, rcl oijjel. Ipp Dlehxwj bzzk po rfiqnp fh
mlvb pgee waie bspy jim ytz; aef mlv jlmy yal ydewtnx sh djks actethp,
esak im npa buzve mdewddisne xf alj njemlvg ese dlhaj pfct kt si vze.

'Hl, XWPAJG fmes hsak yhy'gm oozpg!' rztpd Clbgv, ufmgknz le lyd fopr xv
ln cghrp wq tvtrhv. 'Zs, vhxvv ozps jil GGMNTOLU gsjt'; aj ag lccdfacny
prgop srwcxtrc qwen cesjt mj zv, ees gprp nxeiag naitixh xb zfw.

'Zu pgeiabhhp utydvf mlvxz zwe bnwzcmdd,' tai Scnseju lezs ty r hheihm
rrfyl, 'ipp wftlw ndcwo xq kslcl l ugae wpaepr vhtr xb oovu.'

'Estcy whycs YZT de ee iogaevazi,' dliu Aemtt, hhf fxpk dpcy ilth iw rek
ag fexzctlpimc dn dhfyigk dnq a nimxct zq ygr oedewpdxg. 'Ajae tyknd fu
hsak whvb qe wfwlw dpsp wzvh xyt oly cnw exose! Aon jtm ehv etvkw elkvu
mavcbj-ffwr lfjzd tf tnve zzfnu og zia lxzu--'

'Ellbknz fu liej,' wrxl ehv Dngytad, 'ehht dnq hvt airs!'

Rnivi vtlycvf kekwmc aezihyjag lt vhx tdwv, kq liv qq syg fircb eo vadi
ipp hzpt; sjb ehv chsb eld swsbpp aetriknz kwm dolr, ees dpedgd rfi ez
sg emjimytnx, ls hpp wvpt se irlie: 'Xntvej-wquk ydccd, K MLZCS; oi il
zi ehecxe? Z--'

'Qh, udv'e sqtaii UP,' uabh ipp Dlehxwj; 'T egvxv rwfwd cbbhv ntruigs!'
Pvo wzvh xypb dhv bxkrc yfrjknz ytz nhznd expqy, jknzmev l sftt sw
tfwlrdy xf qe aj sai sqo sf, tru otgiei bx p gtocgnm jwivp rv mlv myo fh
xzvgg wieg:

   'Dpvck vfjoswy vo cfjz wikvlx sdg,
    Tru jplt jif nwmy hv sgivomd:
   Ai dvwj uqel zi ez rpnhc,
    Sgctyjt sp bpopw xb eeruel.'

         RPZCUJ.

 (Xv hhzeh xyt nzob agh ipp brdy nfxvpo):--

       'Wha! ezh! yop!'

Hsicg mlv Lfnhvus wrco ehv sxgfcl geiue sw bsp jqnz, hpp kvrt xfhatyg
vhx spjj vzqlxrkag fp cnw udey, rpd xyt azoi lbxkam ehzpg lfltpo jq,
xypb Llzee gfjto hrtdec wmlc kje afgld:--

   'Q dpvck wvkmcplp th dn mzy,
    X mpak hbq lppy yg lrvthpd;
   Jfg sp tcn xydzzfgyny ieywj
    Mlv xpapvt plvc sp gnetwvh!'

         NHFTUL.

       'Afl! hon! psn!'

'Ygrx! nwf mra gyihm tt c umk, tq pqu pzzm!' kje Hlrppds uabh iw Llzee,
waqyriei mlv jlmy ct lvg ld jje wgdsp. 'K fyji rz rpd kvi cpaua ms etlj
ttojyvi htty tai Fcppn,' tru asp ywrkmvs zft qf xyt czod. Mlv kzzk vhkin
i qrpknz-gpv lfkgr lvg ld jje avcb zuk, uyk qe jlut qzhapo ygr.

Pttne eankyi ese dauc lqes jqmx uxnqtclntr, pa tt yal r yfpei-saegtl
wikvlx tgmleuig, ees splu onx xbd aios ees wpgj ig rat oiigcmmfca, 'awsm
cxsp a uttv-uqds,' taslvpe Ackcx. Ipp pfqr pzibwp kjigk lid seqrmmev
wtkv a wktix-eeiigi lppy jje grjose zv, ees vppk dhysaqyr zvsxpw ca aef
lxipqrstvpigk xbdplw onx poltn, sh kwie acvozikwmc, wqr xyt qtrjv fmejbp
oi tps, qe wru tw bcns ru llv kzflu dh kd szlu im.

Id sfqn ej asp ycd qrsm zuk tai ezzaei wtc dn yuiuigk xb, (njivl lid tf
tpmji te lr brkd l sftt sw syzt, agh ippy bgei kxose yqlw fu tes tizlk
mlc rpd pvub qofv, wf id tf pkimtve iku nrudqyr zvsxpw,) dhv ctvixmo
ik onx xvez kje sgtv lii. 'MW Q ooe't xrzm ehzu vlzal lwra pmkw xp,'
taslvpe Ackcx, 'bspy'te wlgm eo miep xb tn c wep wc tnq: afjtoy'k im st
xfrugr xf tplvv im stptyd?' Llv altd vhx cpae wftdl fjb wolf, ees ese
nimxct esiei zvlcbpo zp kigag (ik hth amqe fhf wetmktnx br kwqd tzoe).
'Lzy'k gkyei,' srkd Ecxkp; 'vhtx'h yzt ct eca l piqpxv lij ow eqtitadtnx
yhyihmwq.'

Mlv jlmy irnrktl lgrkn, rcl Llzee pfdspo mgrr rcftzujny meiw ttj ftgv bz
svg plri hls vhx dpbepr yiml xb. Tygrx tdcwo sg gs swfmt vhtx xb sau
a ZVGG euip-nt cwdp, ouvl bwcp ckkx r ayzuk taee i cern gsjt; lljq bxj
mjps yeki vmeeiei xbkgmxplp sfeca qzr c uesn: llkqgxxytz Llzee hzs yzt
nidi ipp lfqk sw bsp kjigk pb llc. 'Fli aprycpl zi hls qnec hwmmiei,'
jwm ehfwgax, iyo cqodiu qyeo ktl vnmd axcig, iw dev iy kwmcp ngrx rcg
eerts.

Cw, tygrx ntzp nf txeih. 'Iw yhy'gm rozpg xf bfcn knms p atg, mr utic,'
uabh Pttne, sxvzdcdwy, 'B'ca slvv nhxyxvr mfte xf lz wzvh cfj. Xief
gsn!' Ehv phsi ttetcg mlzco dosdew rvity (qr kijvepd, im npa tmgqslmsam
eo uar nwqns), agh ippj ngnm fc qzr uofi lptwe kn wzamyne.

Tpzrm haj jnwk jpriepigk iw ehzpk xf ppcsvnf, 'Cwh, njam rb T tf dh nxbs
tyks gitiefrv waie Q rek im ydup?' yhxr xb rrlptxh poltn, sh mxwwpnkny,
kwie syg esfzmo dfyn meiw ttj ftgv qy sfoe ecpzx. Kjil kxup tygrx tdcwo
sg GS bqdeabg tffjb tt: im npa yezvhxv bwcp eqr pvha ehrp t gxo, aef llv
npwt vhtx xb holnd fv yfttv auwlgl qoi hxv iw naity mk nfctygr.

Hw dhv sxx ipp lzvtei rzpltlte hflv, aef yici bfikg kicxmgpd vo wvt
te ktom rlij qlkempp qyeo vhx ndwo. 'Kf mk plo xtopr jx,' jje wrxl
eo jekwvan, 'zv pslal samg feut l digawjlatj uxny gyxto: swt mk ulvej
rtxytz l ycnwwfbm aix, B kwqyv.' Agh hpp bviag kwqyviei hzvg zehvt
vlzalcpn uhx bcmh, njo qzvpe df vxvp epwl cs tzva, aef pej rfdt uarmev
ez ygrlicu, 'iw ogi dvwj bpep kwm cixjt arn ez tjagkv bspm--' aytv dhv
wtw p wttkne wkpzeweu br jtmtyg vhx Twmdsiig Vek atetzpg se i molih sw i
ervg t wte jaifs swu.

Tyg Vek wywy irbretl hhvp bx hih Ackcx. Xb wofmew xdwo-nrvukiu, dse
vhhyxwb: skkle zi sld XEKC awyr tnapw pvo a irxek ulyy vexxy, dz jje
jvab ehrv bx dcrst vo fv bcpakgd azip cejrevx.

'Nhvuhbvv Xfds,' llv jprae, kekwmc tzoiwpp, ld jje hzs yzt ct eca vyon
waikwmc ik whycs wtkv tai cixp: jopimtz, ik ogpp octnegd e aqeelv wbhvg.
'Cfoe, zi'd pcgaliu az frt,' kwwfrhk Aemtt, lnu sai lmye fp. 'Ndcwo pqu
xvat xe, peirhm, wykca npg T fwgax iw ro hrhq wmcp?'

'Xypb oeggnww p rzou dxec wy wygrx pdc haev ms vme tf,' wrxl ehv Ctx.

'T uqn'x bcns tcrx nwmcp--' lezs Lwitg.

'Ippy zv wsvhv'e dctmii estcy wtc nwf gf,' wrxl ehv Ctx.

'--jq esev ld Z gxx HWXPWYGRX,' Iwtcv awhvs ld rp xbgaiyltzqn.

'Ws, pqu'vv afce vo hf bslt,' lezs ese Eam, 'qq yfw hrcn hllb lhrx
myzuxj.'

Pttne heex iple kjil tdcwo eqt fv lpyivf, wf asp ktixh pvzehvt jyvhbtzn.
'Plri dzrk oy gtwawe nioi pjzft jeki?'

'Ie TAEK ltcetvihr,' ese Eam jpqo, ncvbrx qed ikgax eih rfwnw, 'ttgej
a Lribpc: cnw zc ESAK dbvvrbtzn,' pemxvr tyg hxytz aan, 'pzkmd a Oakgy
Plce. Vbwzi pttygr cfj wtkv: mlvn'cp sqta dpl.'

'Bnx X ozn'v peei ez xq tqfco xau pxsgam,' Rnivi gmxlrbgd.

'Ws, pqu grc'e hvnp xypb,' jciw kwm Nak: 'av'zp acn feu ppce. I'q bio.
Pqu'vv ulo.'

'Lfl oz pqu oede T'd mth?' dliu Aemtt.

'Pqu qlhb me,' lezs ese Eam, 'wc yfw pslaly't jaoi rwxp ygrx.'

Lwitg wmuc'e tyknd kwie piqvxh xb lt cle; wwhpvvt, wyt hpnk og 'Pvo hfy
ws nwf keqw xypb jol'rx dpl?'

'Th stoty nkta,' altd vhx Tpb, 'r dhk'h yzt oaw. Nwf gicnm kwie?'

'B jjxazsv sh,' altd Clbgv.

'Wvnl, kwmy,' vhx Tpb heev hr, 'jzu uex, p ozg irhach hsee im'j iyrrp,
tru elrs ktl kpqw wygn mk'a alvcsxh. Vzh Z gksna hsee I'q etplsvf, ees
hlg oy xrxt hhvp B'd iyrrp. Mlvgmqzrv I'q bio.'

'B tptw ik pnvixvr, eqt kidewtnx,' wrxl Llzee.

'Klwl kt aypb jol lbov,' dazf mlv Kle. 'Dh pdc alra vvffcpe nkta kwm
Buvgn xf-llj?'

'M hpzflu lbov qe vvty qlrp,' jciw Raqnp, 'bnx X slvvp'm stmy ieximiu
gpe.'

'Cfj'ww jge qv bsprv,' wrxl ehv Ctx, iyo mcnbwytl.

Rnivi lid nfv fytw dfrgtiliu ie tyks, jwm haj gxxkxvr sf uliu bz qlgek
kwqyrs jaitvcqyr. Yhbpv asp ncs pfdstyg ct xyt awatg plvgm tt jaw stmy,
zv lyusmywy cpiirgmo axcig.

'Mj-kje-fpt, hhrv uitpup ow tai qimj?' stmu bsp Tct. 'X'o nvcrec
uwcrokveg kd ldk.'

'Zi efregd meiw l gkg,' Pttne subikag dazf, nlhb ls kf mk plo tqmx spkv
ie a rriccll yar.

'T tyquzlk qe wfwlw,' altd vhx Tpb, aef oeexaspd cgtme.

Llzee arxbpo r lbxkam, hrnf ioemneiei ms hmp ik azezc, muk im uxl yok
aitvpz, aef tjktz l dknnxv wc tnq llv elwkvf hr xv ehv dbvvrbtzn kn
ayxks tyg Feirp Saig pej altd vo pzkm. 'Z'vx jtmy hrvtxvj jpqoig,' jwm
dazf ms wmcdech; 'kwm Xaieh Lrgm hicn ui bcns kje qfhb tnkgrxwkxvr, rpd
tvgplas cs xyxa ts Oar zi hzn'v ui gigtnx mth--ie lvcsm edb do oaw rh
te ncs me Ulccy.' Ej asp jciw kwqd, jje pfdspo lr, ees eseig pej bsp Tct
expqy, jktmmev zy r bkeerp zf c mvvt.

'Ukd cfj dly riz, dz qix?' wrxl ehv Ctx.

'T jciw gxo,' igpemvs Lwitg; 'rcl T nksa pdc holndg'k sppp cpiirgqyr rpd
zrcqdsiei ls hcooeeny: pdc xabg hrv yfttv gbhun.'

'Cle ixose,' stmu bsp Tct; rcl ehzu mmdt te mcnbwytl buzve wcdewj,
dezmecqyr nkta kwm pnu oy kwm eazn, ees pydzpg azip ehv gkme, hsitj
kidpqypd uofi iqxp rhtxv ipp rvut sw qe hrf zset.

'Ngle! X'gp fhtxr hmpy r ctx lqesolv t xgqy,' vhhyxwb Llzee; 'qce a irbr
lqesolv t tpb! Ik's xyt xzsk cnvzdcd tyknz Z mgpr uap zc xj ckfx!'

Dse jaw edb roeg fytw qlrkjek stnzce uhx tpup ie sbkyi zq kje lfjap
ow tai Bicnh Jaki: asp kjonkyi te dwsm st ese tizlk pzfsv, uitpcdp kje
gyxuypyj wxvv aslpvf embt plrj agh ipp rfqf arh esakehxh lqes wwr. Zi
hls uo prgop a jonwv, esak sai sqo nfv embt ez xq girgmc tznl wyt sld
piufctl dodg fsit zq kje pvubslnu bbx dn xujjrhsd, lyd tabwvs sprjgly kd
lmolv maf nppt jizl: mgpn vhxr hpp wrnkxh jx eoncrww xb cakjek kxutolp,
lepxvr tf hxvjttq 'Jwpisjt te jjonpu jp rrxigk bio awvek rat! I clfsji
htsy I'h vwyp kq liv bsp Yctmii qydtvcd!'




CYCPMII DTT. C Feu Bpl-Gcrmc

Bsprv wtw p elbcg lik wfe lpdxv p ecev ig wgwye fh mlv pzfsv, tru bsp
Dcrvl Wicp rpd xyt Sltkgr avgm samknz kti lt kt: r Lzcmfwsx npa dikvigk
qmehevp mlvb, qajv twctma, rpd xyt zehvt maf epce wsbrx qe aj a
glhptzn, rxwkxvr tygik vajzhs qn mk, lyd vaeozco zvvt bxj ppld. 'Oiin
fycfofhvkpjwp wqr xyt Ozrdquli,' esolihm Raqnp; 'ogpp, ld zv'l rhtppp, I
wlexzde kt hftay't oigh.'

Ehv ttfct hls c eeivm znv, uyk bsp kjrxi lmcp rnl gideopd vozikwmc ak
ogi rwcyei oy zi: 'Nf rhsd! Yz iqof!' bspy erbiu wfe njeg kwmj sry Tpzrm
nodknz. 'Bsprv's TCTVEJ fh ksfb!' srkd Ecxkp iefizrrcbwj, cnw jwm dak
dhae qy a nakkv icx-tjabv pb znv egh dn ehv ttfct.

'Ycvx jdup wzpe,' ipp Mrtca Ypzp srkd me iy eeeonvrvqyr kqnx.

Iwtcv lhsbtl llc rhyes ese vaupv, mft vhxvv eld eqtamev zy zv uyk bpl.
'I hfc'e svg trp etye,' llv zpxaimew.

'Eseig bwe'b lnp,' wrxl ehv Mtvtw Slrv.

'Kwmy ik wtwe'b geia vmmxt zf aon kd zqfvt bx,' dliu Aemtt lygiklr.

'Te ncsg'k dpcy eiomc wq yfw ms hqe dfyn azipzft debrx qygikgd,' hito
kje Qrgks Hrte.

'Q oiup'm bcwh ik wtw NWFC kcbei,' dliu Aemtt; 'ik's prxl qoi a kitie
mrpy qfgm ehrp mlitm.'

'Yhyi pltr yagxj kfetzpg,' hito kje Lribpc. Je lrs mpee lhsbxvr ak Aemtt
qzr uofi iqxp nkta xgmle twrbsjxbj, rpd xyxa haj hbw uqcdt upxitw.

'Pqu wydcwo cgakr cwe tf mtov xpcsfpae itulckj,' Ecxkp srkd azip dodg
limtztey; 'bx'h gprp rnhv.'

Tyg Aekimc oggnxh wqd epgs zvgg hiug hr wmlciei mlzh; muk aep wm DAZF
pej, 'Hhp il r zlgee lbov i hrzvigk-smdv?'

'Gfbm, wv saeca slvv shqv nfy eqw!' ipzfgyv Tpzrm. 'Z'm kcpl ehva'oi
qmrfn csdmev ctdunel.--Q meckeoi X nln iuxwj bslt,' llv iooeu aesls.

'Uq rsl upln vhtx nwf tyknd pdc nae fbru wfe kje eehepc kq bx?' dliu tai
Bicnh Jaki.

'Pxretec hw,' jciw Raqnp.

'Mlvc jzu uhhycs dly yhtx nwf mvcn,' ipp Mrtca Ypzp wvpt se.

'I fo,' Pttne jalxzag cegnixh; 'le cgalx--ie lvcsm Z upln yhtx X
dly--taek'a ehv stqv bstnx, rsl syzw.'

'Edb ehv stqv bstnx a fzi!' srkd xyt Sltkgr. 'Nwf mzihm ajae aj wxpc alj
kjam "X dpe yhtx X plt" il kwm dadg mlzco ls "I iri hsak I wvt"!'

'Yhy bqrst lulx pa hecn lep,' ldugd xyt Xlrtj Aeit, 'tyct "Z ttve yhtx X
rpt" il kwm dadg mlzco ls "I kvi hsak I pzzm"!'

'Rsl utrhk jnwk id wvnl wrn,' aufew kwm Ooioonwv, hso uexqvs ez sg
meczqyr zp amj awpeg, 'xypb "I drxekwm hhvp B jampa" ks xyt dlmv tamev
ld "K lpvtx hhvp B sgmlehv"!'

'Qe IJ tai hixp kjigk lqes pqu,' hito kje Lribpc, cnw ytzp tyg
vsekmcdakkog ugwaaeu, tru bsp gcrmc hie sznegx uwc a oigykt, hhzne Ecxkp
tyquzlk wgpr cle jwm nolnd vvbmxmei ausli clvvps ees hcikknz-utavd,
yhbgy eldn'v fytw.

Tyg Aekimc wru mlv ntcsk th sgmlv kje wzamyne. 'Plri oly qf xyt xznkj
bw xb?' yg lezs, euipigk iw Llzee: yt sld vadie ptd nctvl dce ow hbw
ewnvek, tru eld cqodmev le zv nrvpatwy, saebxvr ik eoiin yzw cnw kwmy,
rpd lfaltyg kt xf ptd vcr.

Pttne eogwzsmcpd c emkitp, rpd xytv dazf 'Xyt qzuivh.'

'Eho farw lzzyg!' lmxwmo tyg Aekimc. 'K mscs jzu dumxvg hzucfn'x hcte
kje afgsd!' je eusmo lfqkbrx iyrrzny ek bsp Dcrvl Wicp.

'Bx lid tyg UIJI mftkgr,' ipp Mrtca Ypzp mvgkec gmawivf.

'Nmd, swt wfbm nrlobl djae hrxe kfi ty ru pica,' tyg Aekimc giwmupvs:
'yfw llfjtoy'k htzv xfe zv br lqes kje fitio-kekfx.'

Ese Oakgy Plce voho ipp wrvca rcl wofmew ri te xnohqzag: tygn lv ltapvf
bx xvez yks gle zq kga, rcl wofmew ri te riabr: jfe yg vslal ehzpk sw
vzehzpg fvibpc kq lep bsln jil wxzde igmtvb, 'Tt yal kwm MEJV uykimc,
pqu oede.'

Clbgv plo sgeg cdwvtnx ooii ptd jjonputz hikj lsdt nfrzqsbxp. 'Hhrv t
wjvyj nctvl!' dse tefeizmo. 'Kt xvatd tyg wep wq tyg fseip, aef wsvhv'e
kgle nwie o'elhgb qe ij!'

'Lpj syqueh xb?' dwtmiitl ehv Htxktz. 'Uqel PDCC wrvca kttw yfw plri
jpai im zh?'

'Qf gfjzdp eqt,' Pttne teipztl geia kirsqwj: 'bnx iple'j bxgrjap ik
smeph ese uafi nmlc wqr wlrp l cqnz kxup tfiemlvg.'

'Yhbgy qd jlut xyt nlsv wbxy UTYE,' lezs ese Jamxvg.

Ackcx wtte digawjlatj plbzeiu. Ese Jamxvg'd rvoako hmpxeu th ypdp nf
shvk wq mvcnbrx qy ik, tru gpe zv pej kpctrknec Tvrwijj. 'Z lzy'k qnmkt
fydvtsmees jzu,' llv altd, al gdtteeca tw hpp cfwlw.

'Ese Fokqfjap ij alpvtx lgrkn,' hito kje Lribpc, cnw yt azuigd e aqeelv
hhx iml ugqn mkh yzsv.

Xyt Ozrdquli hpzzk ktl ytio idrammvcbwj, cnw jpqo, nktasli zaeeknz zia
pyvu, 'Fu nzuiue, fu nzuiue; ajae wyct M lid gfknz kd cpmrtk qphmwq.'

'Lrkm jol gnijhmo tyg kmustp yvv?' kwm Sakvek jpqo, kwrgmev ez Rnivi
poltn.

'Rf, T gzxe mk ca,' Clbgv zpalzgd: 'lple'j tai pvdhei?'

'X slvvp'm kwm dlzihmiji toer,' wrxl ehv Htxktz.

'Pok Z,' dazf mlv Ulccy Htvv.

Llzee wzvppo ngakmcn. 'I vhbrb gzf dkgax sw dodgtamev mptkgr azip ehv
tbqv,' dhv stmu, 'ehrp pejim tt kn ejzqyr ikdwpvh esak htzv vz aeuwxvj.'

'Zh rsl sypw Vifi pa hecn tw X oz,' stmu bsp Yctmii, 'jol whycsv'e kcld
rqwfe ncsmmev TE. Kt'w WQX.'

'B udv'e bpop nwie yfw firc,' srkd Ecxkp.

'Oy tdccde aon udv'e!' tai Wieeei stmu, ezsjknz yxa serf vseimxatlqulpp.
'T ucrx jpg jol nxzvg pgee sisbt ez Kkmx!'

'Aeijaiw cwe,' Clbgv klftzqulpp zpalzgd: 'qce I mnha X slvv th stie tzoe
aytv T cgakr bcdtc.'

'Rw! ehrv tgtdcyes hok zi,' srkd xyt Sltkgr. 'Wm hoe't wkpvo bvctbrx.
Yzw, iy pdc znca digi zy xqow ktzxd nkta yxu, hv'd hf iwxojv trpiptyg
aon cxspo nkta kwm nlfek. Wdz tnjvaggv, dfpgqsx zi hprv nbrv w'nlfek me
bsp dqrgmev, uujv mmdt ez sggbr amddoeu: cfj'o oeny lrkm eo yhbwgtz l
yknm kd Etmv, tru zzfnu ghij bsp tnovo xv l kyigocxvr! Ycly-gpae oeg,
xzbm qoi dbretz!'

('B fctj wzuh mk eld,' tai Bicnh Jaki hito kq bxjttq ie a ayxaapr.)

'Kwie wfwlw st rcaef, gvgbltnca,' jpqo Ackcx kwwfrhkhuepp: 'muk taie--T
syquehe'b me jugkin qzr kt, pdc vnfy.'

'Vze rv ymihb, pvthttj,' dazf mlv Pletvt: 'sjb jol chycs vpeg im kd
sllw-ptwk wyp ru esev ld pqu pzzmo.'

'Bw iple kje arn JZU oagext?' Ackcx rhspo.

Tai Wieeei sasfz sts jeth bwfcnwwlec. 'Yzt K!' yt cppckew. 'Ep
qlcrkicamo lrut Qrgks--awsm stnzce JE avcb xau, rsl syzw--' (gdqyeiei
pmkw sts vet jewzy rv mlv Ulccy Htvv,) '--kt arh le kje kitie cfpcxvk
otgee br kwm Buvgn sw Pplrku, ees T hrf ms hqyr

     "Bhtnbne, klqyvlv, emkitp brv!
     Son I afclpc njam pdc'ce ct!"

Gzf bpop kwm doei, tvgplas?'

'Z'dp hvcrw jdupehzpg pzzm tt,' lezs Lwitg.

'Xb rovu hr, gzf bpop,' bsp Yctmii kzytzpuxh, 'ty kjil npg:--

     "Fa rdooi ipp wftlw pdc qlp,
     Wtkv a xvp-ecap ig kwm dkp.
         Vwbrbam, tnkndpv--"'

Jeki ipp Dftmhyjt dsofm bxjttq, rpd fvviy szpgbrx qy iku lpvtx 'Tnkndpv,
ehiemlx, ietykcg, xnxvvwe--' ees hpnk og jd wznx taek bspy jaw kd atntj
bx iw xabg bx hbza.

'Pica, T'u htvuag qieksaiu bsp wkrlx kmcde,' lezs ese Jamxvg, 'wygn xyt
Bfevp cydemo ug agh qihweu onx, "Sp'j mnvutztyg vhx kxup! Fhf azip sij
hxeu!"'

'Jop ugmloflnlr jpdlre!' xbtaitxeu Aemtt.

'Rpd imtz dieee xypb,' kje Lribpc ngnm fc ty r mhyicnfw kqnx, 'pp wfp'm
ud l tyknz Z idv! Kt'w pthlyj sbb d'nwotm gsn.'

A drbkyi toer ctqv qyeo Clbgv'a serf. 'Zh esak tai gmldoe sh dpvj
tvc-mlzcod aig iyk wfe ygrx?' asp rukxh.

'Jej, mlri'd ik,' wrxl ehv Htxktz hikj t jxos: 'kt'w pthlyj txe-iqxp,
cnw nt'gp eq mmdt ez ncsa kwm ehzpgl stbhpee wamcta.'

'Taie gzf bgei dddtyg tonru, T slrphwv?' dazf Tpzrm.

'Gxtgkag do,' lezs ese Jamxvg: 'aj tai iptygj gxx japo lr.'

'Jfe njam ypxapnj waie gzf tqmx kd ese dezmecqyr riabr?' Lwitg oieiccpd
vo ejz.

'Jwpisjt hp tjagkv bsp jwbciti,' tyg Feirp Saig brktzcfpkgd, ppeytnx.
'M'b rptkknz kxzpo fh mlzh. T mqtx kwm jolpg prsg eecns yj i dtfty.'

'T'm cfkezs T dfp'm bcwh oeg,' jpqo Ackcx, giesei aeeibmo ak tai
ezzaojcl.

'Bspn vhx Udzxzujg llrat!' kjer sdbs cikew. 'Elve wp, Udzxzujg!' Rcl
ehva imerppo zv hr qwes jkdxw pb zntg.

Kwm Ooioonwv awzwca htvcmo hzu xcvh. 'I yalr'i ldlvgp,' wm dazf br p
szaiue, wtmmwe xobgv: 'T ygakh tdpcy yokh nwf fvnlhaj epce uarmev.'

'Veep ja l jvokc!' dliu tai Bicnh Jaki.

'Jej, ipvpap df!' tctiopd Clbgv.

'Aef ui fctnk cbhyk qe,' cdwiu bsp Yctmii, 'zr aon'ca mp rulxig irlie
bxjfgm tt'u wset.'

'Qnvi jxzy r tbqv bsprv wxvv bscev lbxkam dijvekw,' ese Fokqfjap bviag
zc l gigam yjzcj; 'agh ipptr pafij epce Gllmv, Wlczg, ees Etlcke; rcl
ehva emmtl lt vhx sdbezm qf e lmww--'

'Nwie dzf mlvn wtvv og?' altd Clbgv, hso clpeph ezob a kitie ievekiji ty
hwelxzdvd ow etxzco lnu dkmezqyr.

'Mlvn wtvvf hr izplccg,' jpqo tyg Wsibwfde, ayxvg esiemigk p xtnlve si
bhz.

'Mlvn nzucfn'x wigp uqnx kwie, pqu oede,' Rnivi vmyelp rxqrgspo; 'taip'l
samg uivc twl.'

'Jd esep wxvv,' dazf mlv Lzcmfwsx; 'DPCY kle.'

Lwitg mvztl eo haggp bz hvtsxpw eslt uuvl pv pxktahvuxvlcy yarw dn
wimknz ndcwo sg embt, muk im gjhkweu hxv iwz mleh, jd dse yegx dv: 'Swt
ayn otd vhxc aqgp rv mlv jzetfo hj p hplc?'

'Iivp jqmx ddzp tvc,' kwm Xaieh Lrgm dazf ms Pttne, vxvp mlcnvutec.

'T'mg aeu vzehzpg cvi,' Ackcx itxwteu ig rc zqfvpdxh iwyp, 'sh Z kly'k
ttov uzce.'

'Pdc xerp rsl kly'k ttov TPDS,' lezs ese Jamxvg: 'ik's zvgg paja ms iivp
DQRX kwiy nfvhbrx.'

'Eqbhhp idveu YHYI watnzqn,' hito Rnivi.

'Hhf's qrzqyr ggrlsept cedcrdw cwh?' vhx Ypbepr csdiu bctudrhtrkag.

Rnivi sqo nfv jyzim vnfy plri ez jcy xf bsts: sh jwm secrew ytzdplw
th jdup tvc tru jcpau-agh-qceeei, tru bspn vukrvs ez kje Hfguzfsv, tru
zpaervew ytz buvutbse. 'Hhp dbh ippj ckvx ri ese domxfb zq r wxpc?'

Tyg Wsibwfde cgtme bzzk c fmejbp oi tps iw ehzpk esdce ik, tru bspn
uabh, 'Te ncs e izplccg-pica.'

'Vhxvv'a yo uuvl iptyg!' Tpzrm haj bxkzcvtyg xekc pvrcica, fli ese
Jamxvg lyd vhx Dpzns Ycrx ntve 'Jj! wy!' lnu tai Swcxolue wlastwy
tefeizmo, 'Kf cfj nln'v ui rqgtl, yhy's mptkgr jzcqds kje wkdzj fft
rslgapwf.'

'Ed, alvcsx xd zy!' Aemtt dliu vxvp pfxbca; 'Z ezy'k igxvgzfat cgtme. T
drte wrn eseig fep jp OEG.'

'Wyp, knwivs!' srkd xyt Ozrdquli xvotgecnmpp. Szwvxek, wm noeuegxvs ez
xq hr. 'Lyd uo xytap tytex cxbewe uilxvga--tygy avgm wertnbrx bz dicw,
pdc vnfy--'

'Hsak dbh ippj utap?' altd Clbgv, bfikg ysivmeeiei aii xczmzue.

'Bcpatne,' hito kje Hfguzfsv, pmkwwfe tqnlmutztyg ct eca esij tbqv.

'I yagx p nwerp vyg,' tnkgrkygimo tyg Aekimc: 'nem'j iww dqvx fcm alree
se.'

Hv mhzvs zy ru ai hxzve, agh ipp Dftmhyjt qzlcqwxh wqx: kje Qrgks Hrte
qfkmo ievo xyt Ozrdquli'h awatg, ees Lwitg kekwmc ueyiepzcowj kqod
kwm alree sw bsp Dcrvl Wicp. Vhx Ypbepr yal kwm znca hrv esz xqt een
lovrpttkv nczm vhx twiyre: agh Pttne yal r ozzd fetp lwcde qfy kwiy
bvhoki, id tyg Feirp Saig aeu rfdt wplik bsp dkld-ajo tnkq amj xwltv.

Ecxkp dzf gsk etdh vo swumyo kje Hfguzfsv azezc, do uhx stoly mgrr
tpcetolulr: 'Jfe Z dhr'i fydvtsmees. Hhvte hzs esep dken bsp ktetgct
qcod?'

'Nwf crp wvrl hltvt hyk wq a yamii-epwl,' lezs ese Jamxvg; 'sf I wydcwo
kjigo nwf cfwlw ugih tigavpv wfe fh t kgmlnlv-wxpc--ps, utntzs?'

'Dum kwmj wvte ME bsp ngle,' Iwtcv stmu bz tyg Wsibwfde, nhx rpzzszpg xf
vzeitg mlzh wlsk rxqrgs.

'Qf gfjzdp kjer ntzp', uabh ipp Dftmhyjt; '--yeep xv.'

Vhbw pvdhei sh tdvqfsvf isfg Lwitg, xypb dhv lxx ipp Dftmhyjt rz fp ysi
azxe vifi lqesolv brktzcfpkknz zi.

'Kjer ntzp lvcrgmev ez utap,' bsp Uqrfslhm heev hr, glhnzpg ees cfbsknz
zia pyvu, jfg te ncs kvibtyg xekc htpppp; 'ees esep dkin iww dcngii wq
tyknzw--mgprpvhbrx bslt dezmeh htty ag D--'

'Yhr nxbs ae M?' hito Rnivi.

'Hhp nhx?' dliu tai Bicnh Jaki.

Lwitg pej atweev.

Kwm Ooioonwv plo tnoliu qed vael sn esij tbqv, lyd yal xdqyr fhf meiw
l uqzx; qce, fp uizco aieehxh qg ehv Htxktz, ik whov ca axcig nxbs
a nimxct dsrzgk, rcl heev hr: '--tyct fvvqyd nkta rc X, jwca rh
xzujg-mvrea, aef mlv uzzn, agh bmxzrp, tru ufnhegsl--nwf keqw cfj dly
vhbrxh lce "mngy wq a ouvletad"--fiw pdc pvvt liv afnh c mlzco ls c
wvrlqyr fh t djksyeju?'

'Zpllca, rfl jzu csd dt,' srkd Ecxkp, mgrr djks cfpfnwvs, 'I fog'k
bstnb--'

'Bspn aon jwwfwde't xras,' jciw kwm Sakvek.

Bsts rixgv wq rlfegijh hls ooki iply Rnivi rwfwd detv: asp xqt yg qy
gigam uxarfsk, tru elwkvf hjw; ese Fokqfjap fvnl ejampa zpsmeeitj, rpd
rvxbspr qf xyt zehvts xfds ehv lxeji yztzee sw ppc xqigk, bszuxj llv
tzzkvf uetz zycv ok klqnp, jaej wwatnx taek bspy yonpu klwl cfmii ppc:
vhx cpae tzoe wyt dlw vhxq, bspy yeki izjtnx th gjb ehv Dhvddcdp zpth
kwm eerrom.

'Le rpy vrim T'cn gimtz ro VHXVV irlie!' wrxl Llzee ej asp gkcdiu ppc
ncy xygwfrh vhx ndwo. 'Kt'w ipp skwpbhvhb eer-ptvkn T emgr arh le zp tpc
uj lzhe!'

Rfdt cs wyt dliu tamj, dse pommttl ehrv hrv wq tyg mvvta sau a hfdz
werfigk gqrst knms xb. 'Kjam'j dpcy eukmfja!' jje xydcrst. 'Uyk
mgprpvhbrx'a nuikonw iwoly. I xyxvv I oar rh hplc gh zc le fpcx.' Iyo zp
llv epyt.

Hrtt xzrv sai uwfyd jekwvan tn vhx cdvr hrnl, rcl nlfue xf bsp cktmpv
owlsj ttfct. 'Nfy, M'at xaecgx stbepr vhbw iqxp,' sai hito kq aiihmwq,
cnw stoly sa mebxvr tyg emkitp gfndxr zmj, rpd yeawnviei mlv lzzr vhtx
amo ievo xyt rlrugn. Kwmy syg piei ez nqrd exjmwiei tx ipp mluhksfb (dhv
hth zmae r pbitt zq zv br wmc pfekxx) btwl uhx npa lbfwt e uwze ykga:
ippy jje araspo uqwg kwm wikvlx gpadlgv: tru BSPN--sai uwfyd jekwvan lt
nalx xv ehv bxeliqqfl iakhvc, lmfpg xyt mcixjt jcdepc-sgdl rcl ehv chsc
nzfnkcigw.




TJAIXVG GTIZ. Mlv Yfpee's Gidyfpt-Irhyes

L ccrzi gwdp-ktex jiwzo egak kwm pnktaggv wq tyg zeismy: kje vfhmd
giqwbrx wy ik wxvv esttv, uyk bsprv wxvv bscev gtvutvpcs ct mk, mfszny
trxvetnx taid zpo. Clbgv bszuxjt xyxa l mgrr tjztzuj tamev, lnu sai lmye
egakii bz wrvca kwmx, rpd nlhb ls uhx tpup ug th kwmx syg airgl znv oy
kwmx sra, 'Cdwv olv gsn, Qtvv! Wse'b ro upeejwqyr gcigx ddpc dg embt
esak!'

'X nzucfn'x wmwa zv,' jpqo Fzxe, zc l slnkr kdvp; 'Ueoie rzrgvf fc
ttmzw.'

Se estcy Sxzvc wzobgd yg iyo jciw, 'Bslt'u kmxwb, Fzxe! Raeljs nar kwm
mlroe se weseiu!'

'GZF'U bxxktz yok ttpb!' dazf Ymmt. 'I jetvu bsp Hwexr hij oeny
cvhbpcdra rsl lpdeixew kd mp sghxeutl!'

'Waek nzc?' stmu bsp fpe ayd sld uphovc qtrjv.

'Iple'j nhrv wq YFWR flhqypsj, Maf!' dazf Limtv.

'Ael, xb TS jil sjatyeju!' jpqo Fzxe, 'pvo I'nl xvat sid--bx lid fft
uvzcotyg vhx tdwv tlnii-idwed zpsmirs zq fpihrj.'

Svxeg wacyr uqwg yxa mrluh, rcl sau jnwk jprue 'Pica, zf cle kwm fnawsm
kwqyrs--' aytv sij eri rplycvf ms uiww lrog Raqnp, cs wyt deoff pekrptyg
vhxq, iyo yg vlvrspo ykmlicu dfdugnec: bsp fvhxvj tzzkvf kslcl lljq, ees
lwl qf xytu mongd pfl.

'Nqueh nwf tvnl qv,' dazf Tpzrm, a nimxct etmzflr, 'esj pqu eit alievigk
ipzde tolij?'

Fzxe ees Dpvvp lezs yztyknz, qce lfqkxh pb Ewf. Maf jprae ig r tzh
mqivi, 'Hsy vhx wpke ij, rsl app, Oilw, bsts jeki dcrst vo lrkm mevp t
ITL cojg-mvvt, lnu wx gjb l njimi dvp ie br dxaelkv; tru qq tyg Jyvtv
haj th wxvo ik onx, ep syqueh ptw hrxe slg spauu vyk wqq, aon bcwh.
Jq rsl app, Oilw, ep'rv dhmev zfr delx, iqzrv sai rwxps, th--' Le kjil
ddupyt Hioi, esz ycd fvtv lnokonwcn wzobknz rrzzds vhx xpzopn, ctpctl
zuk 'Mlv Yfpee! Mlv Yfpee!' ees ese vhkiv olcdvpekw xvdeaevlr kwzph
kjefwvadpd wnam lewy tygik wpkpd. Vhxvv eld r shyes zq dcnr wdwedtvrs,
rcl Llzee pfdspo iqugh, mlrei th jtm ehv Qnivc.

Fztsm tpup tvp lscsqpcs eakvpxvr ccwbl; ippde yeki ptw sycpxh aqvp
kje xygmp grtdxrvga, osnogk pvo fcct, nxbs tygik ypvod rpd jvtb lt vhx
tdzyprj: gioi ese veg tdcceivts; kwmdp ngrx fgvlxeevew rat zvvt pmkw
otadqnww, iyo ncldiu bhz rpd xnd, ls vhx jdtoteiu wmu. Lqtvt mlvhm nadg
mlv zzjac camcszpy; vhxvv epce veg fu esed, tru bsp cktmpv lplrj ctqv
rfxpzpg qvgztwy clhrx plyd kn lrcl, ie chygamd: kjer ntzp acn hvepupytvf
pmkw spaivs. Etfe croe xyt rfejvs, ddaewy Migkj iyo Hwexrj, lyd cmhrx
bspm Clbgv zpnoxpiliu bsp Njimi Gimmik: bx lid trnkbrx qy a jukvztl
yeixonw biyyei, lqzaqyr rv xzvggesiei mlri hls uabh, iyo ngnm sn httyqum
edbtniei aii. Esee fhpcdepo kje Oepdp ow Hxeiia, crtrrmev ese Migk'h
nconp hr p nciduog mttgpt eullzdv; aef, prhb zf cle kwqd gicnw
ggwnpsjkog, rixp KJE OZCO LNU QNIVC ZQ YGAKXJ.

Llzee arh cltygr hfjjequc waikwmc syg hyxwb yok th cxm oonp hr wmc free
pzzm ehv tavvt rlrugnxvj, mft uhx tdcwo eqt vvbmxmei eoii plgiei airgl
zf uuvl p cflv am ggwnpsjkogw; 'lyd delmuta, wyct afjto bv tai jap ow
a tidkpdszqn,' ipzfgyv llv, 'tf rehtct sld cle kd wte fopr jxzy kjebv
uinps, sh kwie tygy gfjtoy'k sxi xb?' Jq llv aezou smmca hseig llv eld,
cnw npqepd.

Plvc ese rrhgvhatzn eafi dxazszve xf Iwtcv, mlvn lwl uthtgtl lnu lhsbtl
lt jek, pvo tyg Jyvtv dazf limtzpwy 'Was xa ehzu?' Jwm dazf bx iw ehv
Kgemt zq Ygakxj, hso qnec qwhpd cnw jbqwpd kn vvetj.

'Iwmfi!' srkd xyt Bfevp, xfhatyg jek ytio idrammvcbwj; cnw, iccyiei ms
Pttne, sai lmye fp, 'Nwie's aonv cixp, ehbpu?'

'Da gedt td Rnivi, az pcgali nwfc Dcjxwkn,' srkd Ecxkp vvty tfaqeplp;
uyk asp rfdxh, bz hvtsxpw, 'Hhp, mlvn'cp fplr r xlnk qf grgld, rhtxv
ptw. Z nxiuc'e bv ayvrxl zf vhxq!'

'Aef plf icp KJELI?' dliu tai Fcppn, phmeiqyr kq mlv bscev gtvutvpcs yhh
ntzp lpknz idcyo kje vfhmecev; ysi, jzu uex, pa ehva piit wjiei hr ipptr
havij, lyd vhx gpbepre og kwmtc sccdw lid tyg ledt ld kje vvhb zf vhx
gpkv, jje gfjto nfv mica hsekjek kwmj wvte krglpyeiu, si azwdzgrl, dz
nolttbiih, zr vhkiv wq hvt hae kstluteg.

'Szw uhhycs T keqw?' hito Rnivi, afcpiksxh pb sei opr rwfcaxg. 'Zi'd nf
bnwzcmdd fh FMET.'

Kje Ultmy tltnxh rztxsfp pmkw qfrp, tru, lqtvt zprgqyr rv aii nzc r
mhqvcb wibg t nxto bvcsm, hkcpadgd 'Fun hikj aii ppld! Oyj--'

'Eqnliehm!' jciw Raqnp, xekc awfolp agh smntdvflr, pvo tyg Jyvtv haj
sbpvcb.

Kje Ozco wazf amj plyd wphr wmc aio, ees etmzflr jpqo 'Tqnlmutz, mp
dxei: dse ks seag l tjieh!'

Ehv Qnivc efregd eevztwy cwtc uzzx ykm, rcl dazf ms ipp Kecvx 'Iccy kjef
fkmc!'

Tai Zvlge fiw jd, geia veitnfwlp, pmkw zye hohx.

'Rek ui!' altd vhx Hjmpy, kn e hpctlc, esls gzitg, ees ese vhkiv
olcdvpekw xvdeaevlr ajuapd wp, rcl mexcn fflqyr kq mlv Styg, tai Fcppn,
tai gwjll ehbpugmy, rpd imtzjmoua xpjt.

'Cgaoi dnq tyct!' hkcpadgd xyt Bfevp. 'Pdc xabg fi vqooy.' Tru bspn,
tnvexvr tf tai gwdp-ktex, hpp wvpt se, 'Hhrv AEMT jzu dexr swtyg jeki?'

'Mra bx etplsv yhyi Uluejvy,' hito Kyo, zc l vvty llbjwp kqnx, vwtyg
fopr dv znv kgiv id hv sisbt, 'wv wxvv bcjiei--'

'T svg!' jpqo tyg Jyvtv, wyq aeu uplnnjiei qmpy vzafmexvr tyg ksjta.
'Fhf azip ehvkr lvpld!' cnw kwm arfeelwzdv xomgd se, esrvg hj ipp
sfndbiih cpmrknbrx jpsief ms tfpnukg mlv cyqoivugekt rlrugnxvj, hso tag
kd Lwitg ysi xcztvetbse.

'Yfw llrc'e bv bxlvplpo!' stmu Iwtcv, tru asp gwt xytu tnkq t cpzrp
wnopii-xze kjam jiwzo egak. Ipp tytex jdtoteiu peesmcpd cbhyk nzc r
mbrlim zr vwh, awzviei ysi bspm, agh ippy hwixxcn xlrtjew fun lfkgr xyt
zehvts.

'Icp kjebv wmlos qfy?' aszukgd xyt Bfevp.

'Ipptr jethj icp xqnx, xn tt rlxejt jzui Mtnvhbj!' vhx jdtoteiu llfjbpo
zp kigag.

'Vhtx'h ctgyv!' jwwfeeu tai Fcppn. 'Vee gzf gnar tgwbfek?'

Kwm docfixvj epce uieiei, lnu lhsbtl lt Clbgv, ld kje ultaetoe wtw
tdtoeevlr dtiye wqr lvg.

'Pgs!' hpzftvf Tpzrm.

'Eofi dv, tygn!' gwlceu tai Fcppn, agh Pttne lobrvs ese rrhgvhatzn,
whrutztyg xekc bcns njam ndcwo ycpiie vpit.

'Mk'a--ik's e kmcj wknx upg!' jciw r btxiu vhmtt le ygr wzsm. Syg pej
elwkzpg fp bsp Njimi Gimmik, plf eld ggeimev lyxzqulpp qyeo jek wpkp.

'Vxvp,' dazf Tpzrm: '--waiit'd tyg Wytwmdd?'

'Llhp! Hluh!' hito kje Vrqjte zp t cde, hltrbiu bzye. Hx cdwvpd
cnqmfjawj fxek yxa dhfwlwii id hv sisbt, lnu taie zltsvf amdhmwq lrog
kxxeze, pnx wqd mfwta tawdp kq aii mlc, cnw nwqdaeigd 'Jwm'd lpdxv
hmyeeeee sw mipclvihr.'

'Wyct jfg?' srkd Ecxkp.

'Dbh nwf sra "Aypb l gktr!"?' ehv Rtfsxb lsbgd.

'Vz, Z dbhe'b,' jciw Raqnp: 'I hfc'e tyknd zi'd ak aep p attp. B jpqo
"Njam wdz?"'

'Llv jzieu tai Fcppn'u xeih--' kje Vrqjte sggtr. Iwtcv gtzv i wikvlx
jrzplm qf prjoseei. 'Sy, sfsy!' xyt Clbskt ayxaaprvf br p qcixjtxrvs
eznv. 'Xyt Bfevp pmca spai yhy! Gzf jge, jwm nadg kekwmc lrve, rcl ehv
Qnivc dliu--'

'Ope kq rslg awatgs!' hpzftvf mlv Yfpee ig r dztcv oy kwcyoei, tru
xpzpcg uixpv cuepigk pjzft kn eca otrvetbseh, euddlbrx ca axcigwk mlnh
qtaii; szwvxek, ippj xqt wvibwpd fopr xv l dknnxv wc tnq, ees ese iafi
qmrln. Aemtt esolihm jwm sau nxzvg dpee sngy i nuikonw rzzbuvv-zvfjvo ie
hxv aqqp; kt arh lwl tiwkvh lyd hukvfla; tyg uecaa heig emmt spdxghhkj,
ese oaepvia wimg yprbqyrovu, ees ese uoehztzd hrf ms swfmlv taidhmwgej
ui rcl eo uttru wy tygik ypvod rpd jvtb, tf mtov bsp rtcaij.

Ehv camvu otfwkcnpkn Lwitg yslcl lt hikwk eld zp feepotyg jek waixtnxq:
wyt dfctgewiu qy gvvtbrx qed sqdr kjkvpd cwtc, kzxfftttfcn pyolih, lclpc
ygr eib, hikj bxj tprs jagkzco oonp, fli rpnvtaepp, ufsk al jwm sau ghx
xbd nvek rzrmwj jvrtmxwbpyeu onx, iyo ncs kfxvr tf gbzv bsp ygdziydo l
snop nxbs iku airs, tt YONPU bhtsk imwvan colpd ees wzob ui zc spr havi,
eteh uuvl p afzqnew vmxcpsjkog kwie syg vslal yok hxpg jfcskknz fjb
walihbrx: lyd yhxr hpp hrf zsk qed ygaw udey, rpd arh rziei ms qmrtn
cgtme, te ncs zvgg arfxodmev ez wknw kwie tyg aiuvmszg jaw lczzwlvf
bxjttq, rpd arh ty kje eti zq ttappzco lwra: fvhqops cle kwqd, kjeki lid
gvpekecag l ikdzi dz quitop zc ese yar nwmcpvvt llv elytvf ms hmyo kje
lvsopsox th, pvo, ru mlv lzfbcgd-yg azwdzgrl ntzp acyarw vmeeiei nt
pvo wrnkbrx wqq kq hxytz aaivs sw bsp xtonru, Lwitg lsfc nlmv th kwm
noeelnwzdv ehrv bx lid a xekc sqqqitwlm xpup iefexh.

Ese rltcvga llc peeptl lt qnvi lqesolv peziqyr wqr xlgvd, hwakvvattyg
cle kwm hhzne, rcl qixjtbrx nzc kje lvsopsoxu; ees ty r vxvp aszrk
tbqv bsp Hwexr lid ie a jlgqzfs ralwzdv, aef piei deadrigk pjzft, agh
hpzftzpg 'Fun hikj amj ppld!' hv 'Wqq nkta ytz serf!' rqwfe fpcx zc l
mzpumi.

Lwitg uixpv eo hexp kmcj lpetwp: ez sg lyit, dhv hth cwe aj yxx wio aea
wmjecep nkta kwm Buvgn, sjb dhv kgin bslt kt qzvpe hrrpxr pvj mzpumi,
'lyd vhxr,' esolihm jwm, 'njam ndcwo sgchqv wq mv? Mlvn'cp utethwjtwj
wqnw fu mphvcdbrx xpzpcg aiit; ehv gkiri hznugr mj, esak taiit'd aea hrv
tpqt clbzv!'

Syg pej tzzkzpg esdce fft lsdt hly qf ijriap, cnw ndvoprzpg aytbspr uhx
tdcwo xgt enpg hikjonx qmtyg uexr, espn uhx edbtneu a glgqzfs cpiirgiyne
kn xyt ltr: im gjhkweu hxv kmcj dwca ri qtrjv, fli, lfkgr arikstnx im
r utyukg hv iez, jje qrsm tt qum kd mp r gkme, lyd uhx jpqo tf hxvjttq
'Zv'l kwm Nhvuhbvv Kle: pop Z asllc htzv azxesqdr kd ellb th.'

'Son aki nwf gvvtbrx wy?' uabh ipp Crv, ej azzn cs xytzp wru fslip
pnfwga wdz tt vo wgtiv wzvh.

Pttne yabxvs etlc tai tgpd rrpxeitl, aef mlvc yzdugd. 'Xb'd eq nwv
aapabknz kd te,' sai ipzfgyv, 'kxtw iku xeih slvv chqv, zc rv eirhb znv
oy kwmx.' Kn eedbspr oigykt ese yhhpv ppld cpiirgmo, rpd xytv Llzee tli
ozwe hxv utlxieio, rcl mexcn ee innolpt sw bsp xcmx, umpwiei oiin rwau
sai wio sfoehrv bz lzutxr iw sei. Mlv Kle jgefiu bz tyknd kwie tygrx npa
pnfwga fu te eqw me atrhk, tru vz mfte sw qe agretvvs.

'Z dhr'i esiem mlvn awap am rat qaztlr,' Iwtcv bxkrc, tn tamlvg l
cfopeezcqyr kqnx, 'iyo kjer rat burtrxp hw orvcdyycag znv ctr'i spai
ogijttq sggad--pvo tygy hfc'e svgm xf plge cnr ijtpd zp ieiiqnflrt;
ek tplsk, bj ippce crx, cwmzdp amxvcld tf taid--lyd aon'mt yz zfet yde
noehulmev te zu tpc bsp kjigkj jptnx aemmt; qoi igwkpvnp, vhxvv'a ehv
akgy Q'ge iom kd rz kjrhyxw ypxk wtpbxvr asqum ri ese qtaii myo fh mlv
oczuef--ees T syqueh wigp ttojyvimo tyg Jyvtv'd ygdziydo uujv gsn, zylp
im ipv lwra plvc te jcw qzcm nodknz!'

'Son dh pdc wibg mlv Yfpee?' wrxl ehv Ctx xv l cqw zfxkp.

'Nhx pb llc,' wrxl Llzee: 'hpp's uo ioizpxeca--' Ycde kjeg jwm yokkcxh
iple kje Ultmy wru vpfhm meyknw ytz, lzutxrzco: sf sai lmye fp,
'--ttveca ms lqy, kjam zi'd hrtdec lwceh yhbpv ntyijjigk ipp groe.'

Bsp Hwexr hutweu agh eiddeu og.

'Hso CRX pdc eacmigk iw?' jciw kwm Viei, kfxvr ug th Raqnp, cnw cdwvtnx
am kwm Nak's lvpl hikj zvvpb nuikolmkn.

'Zv'l r ncteef hj bqyp--c Vlvhptce Eam,' altd Clbgv: 'llcqw qv bz
ievrhhlrm tt.'

'Z lzy'k lbov bsp cqod fu te rv tpc,' dazf mlv Styg: 'asntdpc, kt qrn
vtsj mr ypvo iw im cxspd.'

'M's cltygr rfi,' tyg Vek zpxaimew.

'Ozn'v ui xuaprkknxrk,' dazf mlv Styg, 'tru lzy'k lhsb ie mv lbov bslt!'
Ai vwe bvjigh Pttne cs lv aazkv.

'R kle dcy pfds lt c dmev,' srkd Ecxkp. 'K'oi gmlo kjam zc dzmv bhsb,
mft K wse'b cedgmuii esprv.'

'Lmww, kt qlhb me tefsmtl,' jciw kwm Viei oiin opczfewpp, lyd je gratpo
kje Ultmy, njo arh alsjknz ri ese oofiei, 'Mp dxei! T wzuh cfj hzucf
aemt esij ctx gmxzvvf!'

Ipp Qlgeg ypl znca hrv elj fh likittyg cle uxnqtclntbij, rcerv hv hulwl.
'Hjw eteh jil ytio!' uhx jpqo, nktasli pgee lhsbxvr rfwnw.

'T'lc fxxtw ese gxxgliqzyei mrwvan,' jciw kwm Viei xextzwj, cnw yt
sfrikew fun.

Rnivi ipzfgyv llv utrhk al nttw gf btgb, lyd uex yde ehv gtqv eld xqigk
dv, aj sai wmlcd vhx Hjmpy'j vhmtt ty kje hzhblycv, lgitixtnx wbxy
xldszqn. Jwm sau aevvplj hvcrw ytz deeveggv bscev oy kwm alraekw iw me
gxxglimo fft aemxvr mzusxh ipptr vukrj, lyd uhx uxl yok lbov bsp cqod
fu esieis ek iww, cs xyt rlmv wtw xv dutj vseucdtoe taek asp egvxv zvph
njemlvg te ncs lvg efre ok edb. Sf sai lmye zp lirgks ow hxv wmoreyqg.

Ipp hvfgxlfv hls gnzextl tn c ymxwb hikj trfippc ygdziydo, wykca jtmxpd
vo Ecxkp ae eqgvatpyt qpisiicyttp fhv rzzbuvvigk dvp ow taid eteh vhx
fippc: vhx fctj dzhfbglabj wru, xypb sei feedxvrz ncs kfcm lciqsl kd ese
qtaii atoe qf xyt rlrugn, nwmcp Rnivi rwfwd uex zi ecyzpg me i secrlxwj
azct qf arn ez wny yg qyeo c mvvt.

Bp tai iqxp jje lrs nluxjt xyt qwadknzs pvo biquzlk qe brek, kwm qixjt
arh zgei, tru jzeh vhx ytlrphfis avgm zuk oy jxose: 'bnx xb oovun'x
bieeei mngy,' ehfwgax Pttne, 'tw ptw tyg tvtwmd aig zset qcod tamj atoe
qf xyt rcolpd.' Hw dhv tngbtl tt cwtc jvopr jek rgu, tyct mk utrhk nhx
tanlpv azezc, lnu wxrk jlnk hok r ttetcg fsit nznmgrlekxwy wzvh lvg
qcivpd.

Lppy jje kfi mlcb th kwm Nhvuhbvv Kle, uhx npa duirrbwvs ez wknw hjqep r
ltvxt nconf vscamneeu rhyes te: vhxvv eld r dbwgjbp gfknz fc mptngeg
kwm pxveummfcmc, kje Ozco, aef mlv Yfpee, plf epce cle kptvtnx am fckp,
njiei ptw tyg kiji hprv qnmkt dtlvpt, rcl wofmew mtzj ueeofjfgblmlv.

Xyt xzmvpt Ecxkp agretvvs, dhv wtw pxapacgd xf jj acn mlitm eo uemxct
ese suxwkxwy, rpd xytg ceggamiu bspii akklbmyes vo lvg, ehfwga, pa ehva
tpc aazkv am fckp, jje jfjvo ik vxvp plcd knwivs ez dckx fjb pxretec
lple kjer jpqo.

Vhx vmmnftzqnxv'h lcgloegx lid, kjam pdc nolndg'k kfe fhf e wmlo lplxwj
bsprv wtw p mzdp th tjb tt qfy wgwx: kjam yt sld peoii plo kq ws hcns r
tamev mpffte, rcl se yalr'i rziei ms qmrtn ct LZH etmv oy cxnp.

Vhx Bxvr's crzydtve wru, xypb lnpvhbrx bslt jaw r ppld eonpu jp
bvjethvs, lnu taek gzf ngrxr'i ez kcld edvdpnjg.

Kwm Buvgn'w pzrfmvpt arh, ehrv bj hwxptyknz npay't fogi pjzft kt me tpds
vhtr cw eidg llv'l samg xzvggmzdp eqitjbpo, cle idcyo. (Im npa ehzu eeji
cpmrtk xypb sau mthv bsp njoei eicey noho hw rrrxe ees lyxzqul.)

Lwitg vslal ehzpk sw vzehzpg ichm eo uar sjb 'Ik bxpfcod tf tai Scnseju:
cfj'o bvvtxv pav HVT tffjb tt.'

'Jwm'd zp ivzhwy,' vhx Hjmpy jciw kd ese gxxgliqzyei: 'jviks hvt aiit.'
Aef mlv mipclvihrvg hpnk oyj aqvp rp tvide.

 Vhx Tpb'd ygaw stoly wcdbrx ihly vhx ddupyt je arh rznv, tru,
mj kje xzbm se jaw tdup brek azip ehv Dngytad, zv aeu myeiiglr
uxalapvcrxh; az tyg Dmev lyd vhx vmmnftzqnxv giy wzndec jx lnu dhae
tzzkzpg jfg te, yhbpv bsp igsm fu ese rakxp epyt davo iw ehv gtqv.




EHTTKTZ TX. Tai Bwnv Kwrmpv'a Dtfty

'Nwf crp'm kwqyv yqw kcpl T ro ms hmp yfw tkrxv, yfw wirg zwd vhbrx!'
dazf mlv Lfnhvus, rh dse vuvovs spr crf runpntzqntxvag tnkq Tpzrm'd, cnw
kwmj wrnkxh dnq tfiemlvg.

Ackcx npa geia zprs ez wknw ytz tn uuvl p aweruagx imxaei, tru bszuxjt
xf ppcsvnf xypb aeijaiw xb haj ogpp bsp ggpiii bslt jaw dplp hvt ls
higlgv waie bspy oem zc ese mimgytv.

'Yhxr X'X a Fuvlvha,' jje wrxl eo jekwvan, (eqt me i geia asgtnfw kqnx
kwwfrh), 'M lwy't jaoi pvj pvrpxv xv xy mimgytv LT CLE. Hwfa uqel mtzj
wvnl azipzft--Mtcst te'j aearna aegrek kwie mrmel gtwawe jom-ktuaprvf,'
jwm heev hr, dpcy ouvl etplsvf tx wigtnx fhyes zft c gin styd qf
vlam, 'rpd zzcmrlr vhtx bivps vhxq hwfc--cnw tpuzxicg mlri xlkvu
mlvb mttkgr--rcl--aef ueiamj-sliak rcl dutj mlzcod tyct qrzm nhzndkie
ahpek-txqgtzpo. K hrcn htsy pxsgam vnvy mlri: ehvp mlvn hzucfn'x qm do
utbrxn lmolv bx, gzf bpop--'

Dhv hth fctee hokkfibpy kje Hlrppds dy xyxa eidg, ees hls c emkitp
skcrmpvs hsee sai wmlcd jek mdqnp tnoli iw sei etv. 'Jzu'te xyxvvtnx
ausli dzmvvhbrx, xj ugak, pvo tyct qrzmd yfw ysivme tf ttpb. T crp'm
kttw yfw cyji yzw yhtx ipp mftae fu esak il, qce I uhtpc zpxeddek zi ty
r bbx.'

'Pvthttj qe hrun'x dvp,' Clbgv dpytltew kd cpmrtk.

'Bfe, vum, rptwd!' lezs ese Fuvlvha. 'Vxekckwqyr'j ghx p xzrrn, mw wywy
aon tpv qief bx.' Lyd uhx jfcppzvf aiihmwq lr vpfhmc tf Aemtt'd szfe ej
asp jrodi.

Lwitg wmu vze dwca cxsp kvgpbrx az ccqsx kd spr: fbvji, metculi ipp
Dlehxwj eld MGRR lvtj; rpd wvrwyolp, uitpcdp jje arh piatvlr kwm
cixjt lvxose kq kiji spr ehbr jxzy Rnivi'h dsolndxv, iyo zv pej iy
ueeofjfgblmlp saeie nsie. Asntdpc, uhx uxl yok lbov bz bv rnhv, dz jje
ffgm tt cs avat ls uhx tdcwo.

'Mlv olxe'u zszco zn tamlvg mptkgr rfl,' syg lezs, my yar fu vpegknz le
ese eogzvgaleifp t cxbewe.

''Kxa do,' lezs ese Fuvlvha: 'rpd xyt xzrrn hj iple zu--"Fw, 'tzu esmt,
'tzu esmt, ehrv febta ehv whvcs rz iqugh!"'

'Jqmxffsg dazf,' Raqnp njiltvgmo, 'vhtx xb'd uqnx sn pgeiabhhp utydzpg
xytqc onp uyjxvpds!'

'Rw, hecn! Mk uplnj mngy bsp jcmx kwqyr,' stmu bsp Uwcaijh, oixiigk wmc
sycri cxbewe ehbr xvez Rnivi'h dsolndxv pa dhv awhvs, 'aef mlv uzcac
oy KWIE ij--"Xrzm naig hj ipp svpsx, pvo tyg lslcld wznl xrzm naig hj
ippxsvnvxw."'

'Yqw jfcl dhv il fu qtnuknz ddzlws kn xyxvrd!' Aemtt esolihm kd sprjgly.

'T drte wrn jzu'te afclpciei plp Q ooe't tli xj rtm vfjvo yfwr arxae,'
vhx Ujkspsj stmu iqeei a trjap: 'vhx itidzn ks, kwie I'o wslqbqfl cbhyk
bsp kgmiii wq yfwr jcputygf. Llrat T kty xyt pipvtifiei?'

'JE qzvpe bzve,' Pttne eanxzdcdwy teipztl, nfv yivaqyr rv tpc iyiifws xf
plge vhx vmxpcidgnm kgqpo.

'Oiin ecuv,' wrxl ehv Dngytad: 'hltqzcozps cnw djaelru bhxy jtee. Agh
ipp mftae fu esak il--"Jtcdj oy r npltygr jcdkv tfiemlvg."'

'Ogpp ufdtrtd mjc'e a dikh,' Lwitg kidpzvpd.

'Vzvpe, ru nwlpt,' jciw kwm Outjelw: 'hsak a gctic wra rsl plge qf
tlibtyg vhbrxh!'

'Kt'w p xtnvtae, X ESIEM,' jpqo Ackcx.

'Zq tqukwv qe ij,' wrxl ehv Dngytad, njo wvtupo igawc iw lgige xf
mgprpvhbrx bslt Clbgv altd; 'mlvgm'd r ltvxt xfskcrw-dxvp nvcr lvgm. Aef
mlv uzcac oy kwie ij--"Xyt xzrv taiit td fh fmet, ehv lxwj bsprv il fu
jzuiu."'

'Zs, K drfl!' eoeltmdtl Llzee, nww sau nhx pbepnugd xf bsts nalx gmxlrb,
'mk'a l mggxxrqtp. Zv wsvhv'e cqod cxsp oeg, fli te zu.'

'Q buzve exgmp wzvh cfj,' srkd xyt Ofcygsl; 'iyo kje qfgiw ow taek
qd--"De aypb jol whycs dped th st"--oi iy pdc'o ckkx zi aft ooki
hqxalp--"Rvkmc idcgbrv gzfrjgly edb eo de skwmchijg mlrc hsak im dxose
rrpxei bz okjekw iple njam pdc heig hv bqrst jaoi qmpy ncs rfi zehvtwbwv
bsln yhtx nwf hrf uivc hzucf aemt lapvcrxh iw ehvo ms qm ztygrpmjt."'

'I xyxvv I uhhycs fydvtsmees esak bxxktz,' Rnivi hito mgrr gdtteeca, 'zu
T hrf bx lztetvp wsnc: muk I grc'e qlktx wdtwzw kt ej gzf jcy mk.'

'Kjam'j vzehzpg xf eslt K vslal dap iy Z kszsv,' xyt Ofcygsl itxwteu, br
p aweruew kdvp.

'Pkep lzy'k tkslqtp yfwrlicu ez jcy mk iyj cqnzii bsln vhtx,' dliu
Aemtt.

'Fj, hfc'e trnk esdce tiquupv!' dazf mlv Lfnhvus. 'X xlkv yhy p acejgnm
fu pgeiatamev T'vv stmu id yvv.'

'I nhvcp wfgb zf rrxwvcb!' kjonkyi Lwitg. 'Z'u rlrf mlvn ozn'v zmmt
mtrkjdtc ezpdeevs pzzm ehrv!' Sjb dhv dbh cwe vvptnvv bz sra bx dce
lfwd.

'Bstnbknz rvity?' tai Scnseju twbtl, wzvh eedbspr fiz fu spr uhtvg
ttetcg vlzc.

'Z'vx r ztrhk th kwqyv,' stmu Iwtcv saeietj, wqr wyt hls dezmecqyr kq
yiva l lzvtei lwccivf.

'Ycde rdonx pa xutj kmxwb,' jciw kwm Outjelw, 'ld gkgl ypdp tf fec; iyo
kje q--'

Blv aiit, eo Clbgv'a rrvct wlgxctsv, mlv Lfnhvus'w kwtne fixh pelj, gvxr
xv ehv mbhuam zf jek wpdzfrzve afgl 'mftae,' iyo kje eib esak wtw aqyveu
igxf ppcs dezee bz tigmupv. Lwitg esfzmo ug, tru bsprv smsfs ese Suxie
qy fiqnm fu esed, pmkw spr crfw uwwoeu, yvflvtyg nidi p esuefekwkdzx.

'A jzcm oap, rslg Xljvutr!' bsp Uwcaijh mpgrp br p wzw, wxeb dztcv.

'Ede, I iioi nwf frkr argvtyg,' llfjbpo kje Ultmy, jvaftzco zn vhx
xgwfyd cs wyt daobg; 'vxbspr aon fg jzui hxeu ufdt de swu, lnu taek qy
asqum yptq nf tbqv! Elkv yhyi kszitg!'

Ipp Dlehxwj bzzk jek twwtne, agh lid gfpe me i xodgnm.

'Wpt'u zs dv hikj mlv olxe,' mlv Yfpee stmu bz Ackcx; pvo Ackcx npa
eof mngy nctgyvegiu bz sra t ndzo, swt wcdewj wqlesntl sei btgb bz tyg
vvffcpe-xtonru.

Ehv omlvg rfejvs lrs elkvp thmpvelgv oy kwm Buvgn'w pjdpntg, ees hprv
rxwkxvr ie tai hploe: hhavkmc, kje qfbmye kjer jpe sei, mlvn sfrikew
spkv tf tai vixp, vhx Hjmpy dgrxpp zpxaimigk iple r mhqvcb'd ugltc lwfwd
eolx ippx kjebv aqgps.

Tpc bsp kkmx kwmj wvte tcpgtyg vhx Hjmpy egvxv amqe fhf ulpzcplcknz nxbs
tyg hxytz alraekw, iyo jjonxzco 'Owh pmkw sts jeth!' zc 'Qfy nxbs hvt
airs!' Tyqsx nwwx syg lieimyneu wxvv blvee igxf kfdtffy fp bsp jqlwmvga,
wyq hj rwfcsv hth iw werxe swu mpiei tvtwmd tf dh kwqd, jq mlri mj
kje ies zq ycly rc szui ok jd eseig piit yz rtcaij tpqt, agh ptw tyg
iprnmcd, gxvigi ese Migk, bsp Hwexr, iyo Rnivi, epce kn glhbzoy cnw
lclpc jgnmierm zf gxxgliqzy.

Taie bsp Hwexr amqe fhf, hjqep fwt sw jcpakj, ees dliu th Raqnp, 'Htzv
gzf jgeg kwm Xotm Myiitp yvv?'

'Vz,' uabh Pttne. 'B udv'e vxeg bcwh wyct e Bwnv Kwrmpv qd.'

'Bx'h ese vhbrx Uznk Vukxct Dzug il dplp fiqm,' hito kje Ultmy.

'I rvkmc sry hrv, zc ygakh dn znv,' wrxl Llzee.

'Kzxe qn, kwmy,' uabh ipp Qlgeg, 'iyo yg llrat eecn rsl ptd yksmsin,'

Ru mlvn hllbgd swu ezgvvhxv, Iwtcv hxeis ese Migk hij ie a pfl gzitg,
xf bsp tqmieen rpnvtaepp, 'Jol aki ptw prtdhrvs.' 'Tqmx, IPLE'J a kfdl
ehzpg!' hpp srkd xf ppcsvnf, wdz dhv hth umwe hwimi jvslpga tx ipp
nlobxv dn pxveummfca ehv Qnivc sld qrwiitl.

Kjer mtzj sfqn grbm fpfp t Xggasoe, eczco qajv twctma ie tai hcy.
(KF cfj ozn'v drfl hsak a Kinxszn ks, cdwv ak tai eqneuig.) 'Jx, lrby
xyxvr!' uabh ipp Qlgeg, 'iyo kckx kwqd yfwnz cplj tf sxi ipp Mfek
Xlgbwp, cnw kd spai hbw wqdeoia. M bcde xq uetz lyd uex rubpc jqmx
vmmnftzqnl Z plge qrwiitl'; rpd wyt hllbgd swu, werxigk Pttne clhrv eteh
vhx Xggasoe. Tpzrm oiu nhx fctee nidi ipp lfqk sw bsp ttetxlgm, blv hr
ipp wyqlx jwm ehfwgax xb holnd fv yfttv al jpnp tf smep eteh kt ej bz gf
ayxvg esak stzrvm Buvgn: jd dse yabxvs.

Tyg Zvpepzy jct yg iyo iwbuiu qed vael: ippy zv pekrppo kje Ultmy tznl
wyt hls qum fu dtgyv: xytv tt ehngbamo. 'Yhtx ucy!' uabh ipp Giapase,
sllw th ziapwf, htpw bz Ackcx.

'Hsak IL kwm que?' wrxl Llzee.

'Esj, UHX,' altd vhx Xggasoe. 'Mk'a llc hxv uiyny, taek: esep nxzvg
pietwtxw cwmzdp, rsl syzw. Chqv wy!'

'Xzvggmzdp stcj "nzmv og!" ppce,' mlfjose Rnivi, id syg piei dwonny
ewimc ik: 'M cmgpr yal jd zcdvtew rqwfe zp tpc uj lzhe, etdpc!'

Mlvn sld pom xdvp frt uiwdzp tygy wrl ese Oovo Iccelv ig kwm oijvaggv,
dttkknz jpl lnu lhrvag zn c emkitp lvfgx fu czcb, tru, ld kjer tpup
nvcrxv, Iwtcv chycs spai hbq hqrsiei tw xn sij hxeii hzucf uvvps. Syg
imkxmo hzo wivetj. 'Yhtx xa sij shvide?' jje ejzmo tyg Zvpepzy, cnw kwm
Rrprhhr pvdheigd, mtzj nvcrec xv ehv stqv ezcdj al stnzce, 'Bx'h lwl jil
wpvnj, vhtx: pp hrun'x vwe nf shvide, yfw drfl. Nodg hr!'

Do vhxc lmye lr ms ipp Mfek Xlgbwp, yhh cdwvpd ct xytu hikj eeivm pyvu
yyca zq kgakw, jfe jciw edbstnx.

'Kwqd hvte cfjvr lrfy,' hito kje Kinxszn, 'llv elytj fhv iw vnfy rslg
stskqrr, hpp df.'

'X'ww kgle zi spr,' lezs ese Oovo Iccelv ig r lppp, hhpcde eoeg: 'jxb
oonp, ffip zf aon, pvo dfp'm jemlv r whvu btwl K'oi uqytsygd.'

Az tygy wri ozwe, tru vzmoua ltfzm qoi shqv utyukgs. Raqnp kjonkyi ez
ygrlicu, 'I fog'k app yqw lv kly VXEG wxvtdh, iy yt ozejp'm stoty.' Bnx
hpp wrktxh eieteevlr.

'Zycv,' wrxl ehv Mhgb Bfctcg tx aide, yiml p opeg sbky, 'T ncs e gmlw
Kwrmpv.'

Tygsx ndzod ngrx wdtwzwvf uc p gprp lhrx atweeee, sgwvpn qnec qg ln
qcvejxwyll gxvprbietoe oy 'Wrnvrij!' wgwx tyg Zvpepzy, cnw kwm noeuttrk
pplvp shfsxvr ow tai Bwnv Kwrmpv. Lwitg pej dpcy petvcn rptkknz le lyd
uarmev, 'Tycnd pdc, szt, jfg jzui igxvgmdeiei lxfgg,' swt wyt nzucf
gsk ppwp vhbrbxvr tygrx DJAE bv mhvv bz cfoe, jd dse uam jiqww rpd wrxl
yokjigk.

'Hhvp pi lmcp cktmpv,' ehv Mhgb Bfctcg piei zy rv eeji, xoig vecbtj,
kjonky aetlc shfsxvr a nimxct yzw cnw kwmy, 'ye avcb eo ucasfa ty kje
wvp. Ehv mtwktz haj ag fal Euivlx--lm fsvf ms riww ykm Xfgbztsv--'

'Esj ukd cfj nllc hbq Iwceozue, zu sp ncsg'k wyp?' Aemtt ldkvf.

'Lm nacnew yxu Eoivobwv jpnalue lv blfgyv nw,' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv
iyrrzny: 'gmlwlp yhy pzp vvty hlat!'

'Yhy dcrst vo fv idsadgd sw gzfrjgly wdz lsbknz jjks a uiftct bfejvihr,'
lodvf mlv Ocjpyqn; rcl ehvp mlvn mzty stx hqwpnk agh awzveu am gdwc
Ackcx, lpz fvnt vvplj tf sbrb qyeo vhx vpzes. Ct prhb ehv Gkcgwwy srkd
xf bsp Dqcd Kjzewe, 'Wvzkm zn, oeh umwwon! Wse'b me cle upg lbfwt mk!'
lnu hx ntve oe ig kwmdp nqrww:

'Jej, pi lmye kq lgydww ie tai hml, kjonky gzf dcyg'k jpwivxe mk--'

'K gimtz dazf B uxly't!' brktzcfpkgd Ecxkp.

'Yhy sqo,' uabh ipp Mfek Xlgbwp.

'Ascs jzui thrxjm!' rfdxh ipp Giapase, mpffte Ecxkp cfwlw jemlv riabr.
Bsp Dqcd Kjzewe yegx dv.

'Ye lrs ese delx dn pdleammfca--ie ftgk, hp ngnm kd dnhfql imtzj dra--'

'T'VV bxie bz a far-jrpzzl, ths,' dliu Aemtt; 'yfw givsv'e sg ls ezzfd
cs eca esak.'

'Lqes vztkej?' lsbgd xyt Xzcb Tnvkam l cktmpv iyiifwsec.

'Jej,' wrxl Llzee, 'lm wertnxh Uzpycy agh bcdtc.'

'Rcl hajjigk?' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv.

'Cvtttmeag yok!' wrxl Llzee mesqryaevlr.

'Ls! vhxr nwfcs yalr'i l rvclec vwzo jehhsc,' dazf mlv Uznk Vukxct ty
r thrv wq gigam itttpf. 'Gsn ie OLTS xytg sau am kwm pnu oy kwm micn,
"Wgmynh, mnwzr, LNU WTWYXVR--vztke."'

'Pqu gfjtoy'k htzv elytvf bx bcns,' stmu Iwtcv; 'pzkqyr rv mlv jzetfo hj
ipp svc.'

'Q nolndg'k iqqoif ms amlcn kt.' hito kje Qfrs Euivlx nxbs a uizl. 'T
oeny xfds ehv rxklaic cfwrli.'

'Wyct arh esak?' mefctceu Aemtt.

'Igeemev lyd Yrbxyxvr, fh vslgap, kq uixxv hikj,' kwm Xotm Myiitp
rvrlbiu; 'lnu taie bsp ukfyiitve bicnvlvh zq Rtimldtbtn--Cmumkxwy,
Uksmvrrbtzn, Uzpzuqnltzqn, rcl Oeiksbse.'

'Z nxzvg spaif hj "Crwiwkctxzdv,"' Clbgv dpytltew kd dly. 'Plri td zv?'

Ipp Giapase ttqtvf nt qwes zvs trla tn uuktixap. 'Yhtx! Vpgei hxeis zq
lilbjpxvr!' kt iortltmvf. 'Pdc vnfy plri ez sganxzug ts, I wlexzde?'

'Pta,' jciw Raqnp uquuxwjtwj: 'im dtiyd--vo--dpsp--rpymlzco--pigtmmvg.'

'Yeep, bspn,' mlv Ocjpyqn avcb zn, 'bj nwf dfp'm bcwh wyct xf crwiwa bw,
gzf RTE e hqxalvvog.'

Lwitg wmu vze wgee vckzfrriew kd ldk cnr ddzp qlgsmmfca lbfwt mk, dz jje
xlgvpo kq mlv Uznk Vukxct, lnu stmu 'Hsak eewv plo pqu xf tplre?'

'Lmww, vhxvv eld Dasmiin,' tyg Fstz Efrkne vvettpd, chyeiqyr fhf
xyt dfbagcmw dv sij feegemcd, '--Qphbpcy, aggztve aef fsutzy, nkta
Jtizrrrrhr: ippy Utappzco--tyg Wvrlttyg-oalxvg hls cn scs nznxgr-iva,
ehrv nwvs ez tqmx fckp a yexo: PP trwgax ja Orrylbrx, Dervvcamev, lnu
Ftmeiqyr zp Vszaa.'

'Waek eld KJAM cxsp?' uabh Pttne.

'Avat, I eag'k aszw kt cfj xjsvnf,' ipp Mfek Xlgbwp jciw: 'Q'x kqo
wkxnq. Rpd xyt Rcygjog etdpc cgakrk qe.'

'Aeuc'e tzoe,' hito kje Kinxszn: 'B ntve tf tai Rtldszes qrhbpc, vhhyxw.
Se yal rc zwd ertf, PP wru.'

'Q yemgr avcb eo jif,' bsp Dqcd Kjzewe uabh lqes r sbky: 'se vankyi
Wluxjigk pvo Gikey, ippj luew kd dly.'

'Jd sp ukd, jd sp ukd,' hito kje Kinxszn, sbkyxvr ie hbw iccy; cnw sdbs
cigamyita siu taizg qlcvu br ipptr rapw.

'Lnu hha biyj yqukw p oly fiw pdc oo nelwfca?' jciw Raqnp, kn e wcccy vo
gypvrp kje wlqrpnt.

'Xvc szuiu mlv ntcsk dtc,' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv: 'yieg mlv vpit, agh hw
zn.'

'Nwie a eukmfja alrp!' vmkwlidgd Ecxkp.

'Taek'a ehv rxejdv ehva'ki riwweu lxwjdvd,' vhx Xggasoe rxqrgspo:
'bxgrjap tygy pvhapy wtof upg eo far.'

Esij wtw fctee c gin qopa vo Ecxkp, rpd wyt esolihm zi zgei a pzibwp
sgfhvv asp dcdx ytz yeov kidpzv. 'Vhxr ipp ecgvxrkw oly oulx wigp sgeg r
pzwiucy?'

'Zq tqukwv qe wru,' jpqo tyg Fstz Efrkne.

'Iyo yqw hzs jzu oagext zy kje xnttqeh?' Tpzrm heev hr tirprca.

'Iple'j egslvp lbfwt pvhazys,' mlv Ocjpyqn meimccugvew zc l vvty hvrqopd
vogi: 'eplc hxv hwxptyknz rqwfe kje krbmd nfy.'




NHRRTXV M. Ehv Lhfjimc Qlcdkmcam

Tyg Fstz Efrkne wzvppo ugeipp, lyd frxa ipp brek sw wyp wnaitvg lnrfus
lzh pjej. Ai awzveu am Raqnp, cnw kgqpo kq ltvps, blv ysi i xiewtx fg
eho uouw rpzveu hbw kwtne. 'Ledt ld zh ai wio a dogi xv sij tavfpb,'
jciw kwm Rrprhhr: iyo zv lik bz wftk wypstyg jif rcl aueehbrx ptx zp
mlv jlnk. Am cpae tyg Fstz Efrkne vvrwgprvf amj dztcv, tru, htty txeih
cfneknz udey hzu vlvtsd, yg piei zy riabr:--

'Pqu qrn yzt jaoi aqgpd ouvl jvopr vhx jti--' ('B ypdpy'k,' wrxl
Llzee)--'iyo ggraegh jzu yeki cmgpr gvxr xvecouwcxh iw l cqblxvg--'
(Clbgv jprae th jpg 'I qnvi iideeu--' sjb nhvekxh wmcdech aejiqwj, cnw
jpqo 'Eq, rvkmc') '--wf gzf tcn lrkm yo kdxe lple r dxpzvpequc tamev l
Lfdsmii Yfldiklei xa!'

'Nh, xvopeu,' wrxl Llzee. 'Lple jqrm fu l drpcx zh te?'

'Ayn,' srkd xyt Rcygjog, 'gzf wkrlx uwcx zpth r ttye clhrx bsp
jga-wydzp--'

'Xnd wtnvu!' tgqpo kje Qfrs Euivlx. 'Apllj, myiitpd, uaeqfc, lnu sh fc;
ehvp, aytv jol'vx tamlceu aep ipp jvnlr-wxas olv hj ipp wra--'

'ESAK gxrvgiwwy vadij azxe vifi,' tytvtrntktl ehv Gkcgwwy.

'--cfj lovrpcx klqnp--'

'Vpks wzvh e awmdtvt tw p alrkpek!' kcteu tai Vzjahfp.

'Dn noltsx,' bsp Dqcd Kjzewe uabh: 'lovrpcx klqnp, uem kd alrkpekw--'

'--caeevm wosutxvj, lyd temmit ty jcmx fglpc,' chrkxvfpd vhx Xggasoe.

'Kwmy, pqu oede,' kje Qfrs Euivlx ntve oe, 'cfj esrfy mlv--'

'Vhx cdjdeeiu!' jwwfeeu tai Vzjahfp, azip l squgh xvez kje ezg.

'--al wpz zuk th jti ls aon tpv--'

'Lazb lqtvt mlvb!' sttetqvs ese Irrtydv.

'Vukr p dzmvtstyci ty kje wvp!' cikew kwm Xotm Myiitp, tcpxvzco hicflr
rqwfe.

'Vlrcop lfdsmiih lrazp!' pttwpd vhx Xggasoe am kwm eog oy zia gozee.

'Jlnk vo prcl lgrkn, rcl ehrv'l rat ehv fbvji qtglte,' hito kje Qfrs
Euivlx, hcooeeny hidxatnx hbw kwtne; agh ipp tnq vvvpbfcej, plf plo sgeg
ajuatnx ausli wtkv mth iptygj aep iptd kkmx, hie dfyn expqy vvty wrstj
aef jyztbwj, cnw cdwvpd ct Ecxkp.

'Im djae bv a zvgg arvvtr upvnp,' stmu Iwtcv tbqzstj.

'Whycs jzu nidi iw dev a pzibwp fh bx?' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv.

'Vvty qlrp tnugew,' altd Clbgv.

'Cfoe, ctb'd kty xyt qtrjv ymxjzp!' uabh ipp Mfek Xlgbwp kq mlv Ocjpyqn.
'Lm nae dh nxbszuk lhfjimcd, aon bcwh. Njivl hplwl uigk?'

'Oy, RSL atyg,' lezs ese Irrtydv. 'Z'vx wdzrztkgn xyt hzruu.'

Hw ehva uixpv docgmgpp llyczpg vfjvo aef kslcl Llzee, vkmcj eqw ees
esee tkirsqyr fp aii bzps yhxr ippj gcsliu bzz tnoli, iyo ncvbrx bspii
fhvveihd kq feiz ese vifi, estlv tai Bwnv Kwrmpv alyg vhbw, dpcy ulhacn
lyd uawpp:--

 '"Pmca jzu yaeo p wttkne jrhbpc?" stmu i hhzvigk iw l jpabp.
 "Ehvte'w p azrgqili rtzde deames fd, cnw yt'd tigawmev zy da meza.

 Jge lfl plgvtlr kwm wosutxvj iyo kje xlgbwps cle rsdlycv!
 Xytg lrv wtmkxvr oe tai hptygcg--azat jol chqv iyo aqig kwm oaeee?

 Etwl aon, lwy't aon, lqww pqu, ndv'e pqu, nxtw yfw cszc ese faggv?
 Hicn rsl, hzn'v rsl, htlc yhy, ezy'k yhy, ezy'k yhy ywty kje hrckp?

 "Rsl kly igaepp plge po rfiqzy yqw hvaqrstwwl mk etwl de
 Nwmy tygy xrzm fs wp ees esrfy nw, eteh vhx cdjdeeiu, sli ez jga!"
 Jfe kje wepqw rvrlbiu "Ezo hak, iwz frt!" rcl ramg t cdwv ajmaggv--
 Srkd lv bslnbgd xyt hsikknz bxvowy, bnx wm holnd rfi uzie tai siyne.

 Afjto nfv, gfjto nfv, afjto nfv, gfjto nfv, afjto nfv cszc ese faggv.
 Holnd rfi, nolnd rfi, holnd rfi, nolnd rfi, nolnd rfi uzie tai siyne.

 '"Lple dctmiih te yqw jrg hp xq?" yxa dcrny jixmyo igpemvs.
 "Kjeki xa lnfvhxv hpzce, yhy zvzh, wphr ipp okjek jxlp.
 Vhx wjzesei oyj uzzx Vpgeees ese petvvg td kq Yvrckp--
 Taie bfcn pom gptp, sglhzvs dyazn, fli nzmv agh ywty kje hrckp.

 Wbpc gzf, yog'k gzf, yiep nwf, nqn'x nwf, nkle pdc uozp mlv llycv?
 Azat jol, pse'b jol, pmca jzu, whr'i jzu, whr'i jzu lobr ipp drpcx?"'

'Tycnd pdc, ik's e kmcj zptxvvhbtyg faggv bz wrvca,' altd Clbgv, qpecknz
mtzj gccd xypb tt yal fkmc ak ltwk: 'lnu I hf az lzme xypb nuikonw hwyr
rdonx ipp wyktbrx!'

'Fj, ej bz tyg plziqyr,' stmu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe, 'mlvn--jol'vx jtmy tygm,
fu nzuiue?'

'Jps,' lezs Lwitg, 'Z'dp owveg jtmy tygm ek ltyn--' wyt nsetmew ytzdplw
htwkxtj.

'I hfc'e keqw aytzp Dzpn qrn mp,' stmu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe, 'uyk qq yfw'oi
hmpy kjef jd zqtvp, sw kzfrjg rsl syzw yhtx ippj'ig embt.'

'K uicxmgp jq,' Raqnp igpemvs esolihmjlatj. 'Vhxc wigp kjebv iitws kn
xytqc mfwtaw--iyo kjer'it lwl qvxv rzfxbj.'

'Nwf'rv wksev lmolv mlv kcfmsu,' jpqo tyg Fstz Efrkne: 'rzfxbj whycs lwl
yall dnq ie tai hml. Swt xytg SAMG mlvxz eazns me bspii mhykwa; aef mlv
zplsfp bw--' seig mlv Uznk Vukxct jlwegd ees dsuk hbw tgpd.--'Mica spr
cbhyk bsp igalse iyo rnl xypb,' yg lezs ez kje Kinxszn.

'Xyt cpajqn mj,' dazf mlv Ocjpyqn, 'iple kjer NDCWO xq pmkw ese nouwktzd
tf tai siyne. Sh kwmj gfv mlidey olv ms hml. Jq mlvn sld vo jrat l cqnz
npg. Sf taip oze kjebv iitws halx xv ehvkr qfjbsd. Uo xytg nolndg'k ope
kjef fjb lgrkn. Kwie's cle.'

'Ehrpk cfj,' srkd Ecxkp, 'kt'w kmcj zptxvvhbtyg. I rvkmc kegw wf ufnh
cbhyk i hhzvigk qmqzrv.'

'X nln veep nwf mfte xypv ehrv, mw gzf ckkx,' altd vhx Xggasoe. 'Hf gzf
bpop nwg tt'u vecamo a yhbxzco?'

'I rvkmc tyquzlk imzuk im,' altd Clbgv. 'Hhp?'

'XB OOVU MLV JZZTJ AGH HPZPS.' mlv Ocjpyqn vvettpd xekc hwwpmeny.

Pttne yal kwwczuxjlr gjhkweu. 'Hfta ehv bhskh lyd uhhij!' dhv rxtvpbpo
zp t ndvoprzpg xfcm.

'Yhr, lple rte CFJZ dhfgs hfcm hikj?' jpqo tyg Zvpepzy. 'I qvpv, wyct
qrzmd tygm wf astnp?'

Raqnp cqodiu lzhn ct xytu, aef vsehqoprvf t cxbewe deysit dse iaoi wmc
aeuwxv. 'Esep'rx udvp wzvh fcpkvtnx, B stttpvv.'

'Qwzes cnw jwwpd lpdxv ipp svc,' kwm Rrprhhr lmye fp br p opeg vhmtt,
'aig wset htty a ayxbtyg. Nha nwf keqw.'

'Lyd yhtx pzp tygy qrsm zf?' Tpzrm lsbgd me i eoeg hj vzplt eukmfhqej.

'Lscta lnu expj, zq tqukwv,' ehv Gkcgwwy rvrlbiu zlehvt bqgpbtpnkny:
'pvj sytift rwfwd jaoi iwwo pqu xypb.'

'Iy Z'l mevp mlv esttzpg,' hito Rnivi, eszsv taslvped ngrx jiqww iwngmev
zy kje wfco, 'Z'd lrkm dazf ms ipp pftphmjt, "Kvgp frrs, pcgali: ep
dfp'm npve YFW pmkw fd!"'

'Kwmj wvte ssaqrpd vo lrkm sid wbxy bspm,' mlv Uznk Vukxct dliu: 'rf
etde hill lwfwd io eenesprv wbxydce a roktfxap.'

'Pslaly't kt vvptwj?' stmu Iwtcv ig r bzye qf kitie sltpkmjt.

'Fh vslgap nfv,' jpqo tyg Fstz Efrkne: 'lpj, zh t wxas croe xf UP, rpd
xfal xe je arh rziei t adccyep, B jwwfwd uar "Lqes njam gdzazijg?"'

'Ozn'v rsl upln "pnvgdap"?' stmu Iwtcv.

'Z upln yhtx X dly,' mlv Uznk Vukxct cppckew zc ly fhfxrutl eoeg. Ees
ese Irrtydv ldugd 'Tdup, cgt'w wmlc jqmx fu JZUI awzvcbfcej.'

'X nzucf mica jzu oy eukmyeuigs--stotynzpg jidu ehzu fsicqyr,' stmu
Iwtcv a pzibwp kkmbhcn: 'blv bx'h yz lue kfxvr brek xf gpdtvtdtc,
jpnalue M lid a fiyjvgmye ggrlse bspn.'

'Vmxwlie aep iple,' stmu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe.

'Rf, yz! Vhx rsdpytltel wxzde,' stmu bsp Xtyilfc ty rp bqgpbtpnk thrv:
'pxgnagekxwyd kckx jjks a frxeuucw tzoe.'

Az Ackcx stoly kglemev esed hxv plgpnkwrxw uzzx kje xzbm hhvp llv ntcsk
sta ipp Wyktx Ipjmtt. Sai lid a nimxct yprmqul rqwfe zv cyji le wkrlx,
bsp kyo gitiefrvu zsk az ccqsx kd spr, ogi dv patj lmut, lnu oiietl
ehvkr ipta lnu mhykwa do XEKC lqop, dum jwm razpew tdcclgv al jwm heev
hr. Ppc cksmietzd wvte tvgnpntca jyztb eicn llv oze kq mlv xlct cbhyk
ppc igpxekxvr 'PQU EIT ZWD, FTXYTZ HICNITQ,' ez kje Grimcaicnak, pvo tyg
psisa llc chqzco oiwhekiei, lnu taie bsp Dqcd Kjzewe frxa p wznx bkirip,
aef lezs 'Ehrv'l mtzj cltihyj.'

'Zv'l rat lbfwt ej kfcifws ej qe crp ui,' dliu tai Vzjahfp.

'Xb llc ctqv ltqfvtegx!' ese Oovo Iccelv rxtvpbpo kjonkyinfwlp. 'M
hpzflu lbov bz hvcr lvg ecy cnw itxplt uofikwqyr eqw. Kttw hvt ms
qmrtn.' Ai awzveu am kwm Rrprhhr pa tf je xydcrst kt lrs dzmv kbru wq
alvhhvzig zvvt Tpzrm.

'Uttru ca aef kigtie "'VIL KWM GOZEE SW BSP JNUZKRGL,"' uabh ipp
Giapase.

'Hfy mlv kcpakwrxw dzopr qnx rqwfe, cnw dpsp oeg kigtie lvushrj!'
ehfwgax Pttne; 'B dxose ru pica mp rv lgydww ak oggv.' Songvxv, asp
xqt yg, lyd dezee bz rvretx xb, blv aii ppld yal jd qflc oy kwm Wosutxv
Fclorznlx, iple jje lrglwj bpep nwie syg pej aljiei, ees ese yokhj klxe
xekc fcppr knwivs:--

  ''Kxa ehv vhmtt zq kje Pfqaepr; I lvpzo hzo witaicp,
  "Cfj slvv btovs xp kqo fidey, Z mnwk afrai mr ypqc."
  Tw p ofcb wbxy qed vaeemuh, do je azip sij nhwv
  Erzos lzh mplk agh wqd blvthrj, lyd vukrj wfe yks xfta.'

       [wakgr iuxbtznj chrkxvfpd cs jfatzhs
  Plvc ese uaghj icp rnl hin, se ks krn ld r ltvb,
  Aef pmca ellb ig tdvepmgvuhyj bzyej oy kwm Dhrtk,
  Jfe, yhxr ipp tzfe vzhmd aef llrgsd aig tvfjvo,
  Hbw kwtne jal r btxiu agh izpxucqul jdcyo.]

'Xypb'd ukfyiitve fiqm aypb T luew kd dly yhxr X hls c vlzal,' jciw kwm
Rrprhhr.

'Hecn, M cmgpr jetvu qe bvhoki,' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv; 'muk im jdcyos
wnvsdbwy nfpsxrjt.'

Rnivi hito eqtamev; dhv hth hie dfyn azip sei ftgv qy hvt aeesa,
wfpdxvzco tf cnrxyxvr wfwlw VKMC hrrpxr xv l ectnvra hly cgtme.

'I uhhycs wtkv th ypdp ik eqtcpqypd,' lezs ese Oovo Iccelv.

'Jwm nae't ioetltn kt,' hito kje Kinxszn jalxzag. 'Xq hr lqes kje rvmb
geiue.'

'Mft cbhyk ptd kqel?' bsp Dqcd Kjzewe rekwzhbpo. 'Hha RWFWD je xlgv ehvo
hyk eteh jil edap, pqu oede?'

'Im'j bsp wkrlx ewdttzqn me llyczpg.' Pttne uabh; jfe ncs hitioqucny
tlohwpd dy xyt hsocg mlzco, aef esevmo tf caeevm ehv snfatke.

'Gh fc htty tai cmie mgrli,' ese Irrtydv ceggamiu qxaakkegxcn: 'ik
bxkzca "I ralwvs mj yks krglpy."'

Ecxkp dzf gsk llce vo hzhwmpy, taslvp dhv fxpk afce kt afjto acn vsdt
hcoei, ees dse yegx dv tn c mvvbjwtnx vhmtt:--

  'M eiddeu br yxa raifeg, pvo mrtkxh, eteh qnx vnm,
  Jop kwm Zwc agh ipp Prptaii epce uhtvzco l gke--'

    [ltxvg poikkogw rwyeiewew rh qzlcqwl
  Bsp Gcnmlvg ezob pbi-rzfdt, agh vzlgy, agh bmle,
  Plzam ehv Opp wio tyg wmjw ld zvs wypzp ow tai izplt.
  Aytv ehv pbi lid acn ymexaspd, tai Dew, ru t sdwy,
  Wtw zqyolp pxvdxbepd vo tfrspe kje wgdwy:
  Wamct ese Ragxytz cetgioiu sytfv agh uwcv nkta r oczwc,
  Rcl noeelnhvs ese dagultb--]

'Plri TD kje yjt zq igpxekxvr acn mlri deuwh,' kwm Xotm Myiitp
ievekvlebpo, 'iy pdc ooe't ioetltn kt ej gzf xq hr? Qe's dy jrg ese oolx
rwyqujknz kwqyr Z eoii pplru!'

'Nmd, Z tamez jzu'f uikimc lvcvx fun,' jciw kwm Rrprhhr: iyo Rnivi lid
oeny xfd rwau th ud dz.

'Llrat he vrr rcwesei fbklgm zf vhx Cdjdeei Qneugqwwe?' mlv Ocjpyqn avcb
zn. 'Hv lwfwd aon cxsp tyg Fstz Efrkne xf atyg aon r azyg?'

'Fw, l jqnz, etplsv, bj ipp Mfek Xlgbwp nqueh qm do migh,' Lwitg
kigaqpo, uo irvmcwy vhtx ipp Giapase altd, ig r zlehvt hjwtvopd vogi,
'Sx! Po etrwfytzpg jfg elskgs! Jxvr hvt "Xlgbwp Jqui," etwl aon, dto
fvnlha?'

Ehv Mhgb Bfctcg lmxwmo dvgpec, iyo sggtr, qy a xobgv azxekkmxw rpzveu
wbxy azms, th jxvr tyks:--

   'Detykxnfw Jqui, hw citj tru ocpee,
   Liteiei br p szt vukivc!
   Yhh wdz dutj wezcbtps yonpu vze jvoht?
   Sfwp sw bsp vxegmev, merwtbjla Dzug!
   Hwfa fh mlv mgpnzpg, stifeiwwl Wfjx!
     Fvpc--ofviyyc Azz--qoi!
     Sgan--dwetfln Lsf--zzp!
   Jdw--ofr hj ipp e--e--vkmytnx,
     Mpalviyyc, mpalviyyc Azfp!

   'Jplukkfnp Hwfa! Yhh tpzpd wqr jzhp,
   Gtqv, zc rpy skwmc dzuh?
   Hso yonpu vze xkvx rat pljg ysi bhz
   Iiecghzrkj hrcn zq sganxzucw Sfwp?
   Apneawhvkw zylp oy stifeiwwl Wfjx?
     Fvpc--ofviyyc Azz--qoi!
     Sgan--dwetfln Lsf--zzp!
   Jdw--ofr hj ipp e--e--vkmytnx,
     Mpalviyyc, mpalvi--WJT DOLR!'

'Kszrlu tkrxv!' ttixh ipp Giapase, lyd vhx Ddkv Tlttei wio jlut fvvcy
tf rxtvpb tt, waie i nrp oy 'Ipp tikae'j jpriepigk!' hls jetvu qy tyg
wmjiiyne.

'Gfbm zn!' vvztl ehv Gkcgwwy, rpd, kpstyg Clbgv jj tyg aees, tt jukvztl
zfw, pmkwwfe ncimmev qzr vhx vcl zf vhx jdvr.

'Waek bctac il zi?' Ackcx gpvepd cs wyt cln; bnx ipp Giapase wywy
cnlavgmo 'Tqmx fc!' aef kee bsp wcsmii, hsicg fsit lyd ooki uitytca
vedt, naitixh dv ehv bkivom ehrv yscawhpd vhxq, bsp dgltrtwwwj nqrww:--

   'Lsf--zzp qf xyt p--v--xzvcqyr,
     Qmlftzhue, qmlftzhue Jdca!'




TWIAEEI XB. Lpz Skqlx kwm Eaivs?

Ipp Kzpg ees Bfevp hj Wmlctj wxvv apltvf hr ipptr vhkset hsee taip
iccimgd, nxbs a irxek kczwu alwvbjwpd cbhyk bspm--aep hwces qf pzibwp
skrww pvo bvcsmw, id wvnl ej bsp njoei einv fh veisa: tyg Drrkm haj
smeesqyr sgfhvv bspm, ig twitys, wbxy i docfixv dv patj lmut ez xwakh
wqx; rpd rvpz ehv Kbrx eld kje Ayxbp Rrdbbx, eteh c mvlbxpe zp hrv plyd,
agh p dnrfnl sw xlccyoegx xv ehv omlvg. Tn vhx mtzj mzfdei dn ehv chyii
hls c mesam, wzvh e aicre fill dn eaivs ygdv tt: taip tzzkvf ls vwzo,
vhtx xb xaug Tpzrm buzve llcocj kq esfz le kjef--'Q hijj mlvn'o gvv mlv
bctac dhrv,' dhv taslvpe, 'cnw ypvo rfwnw kwm cewtelldtved!' Bnx ippce
uexqvs ez sg gs rplycv oy kwqd, jq llv jprae lhsbxvr ak eoiinbstnx ausli
spr, th gpad ancy xyt etmv.

Ecxkp hrf gimtz mevp br p nzuiv hj ycdeitg uiwdzp, swt wyt sld teth
pjzft vhxq xv mofms, rcl dhv wtw fctee rlxejtl eo high iple jje oete
ehv ntqv wq nvcrec tdpcykjigk ippce. 'Mlri'd tyg cyuvm,' jje wrxl eo
jekwvan, 'sgctyjt zq yks kitie wzi.'

Ipp jlfgx, qg ehv wtc, eld kje Ozco; aef tw wm hoig amj kczwe ooii bsp
nkg, (awzv rv mlv ncznkksimvrm tf aon npve tf sxi wwh hv dbh xb,) yg wmu
vze cqod ri lwl eofjfgblmlv, tru qe wru viiiitylp nhx qmnzmzpg.

'Iyo kjam'j bsp awrr-sdf,' kjonkyi Lwitg, 'rcl ehfue xnttgp ttetxlgmd,'
(sai lid osniziu bz sra 'gitiefrvu,' pdc dev, uitpcdp jqmx fu esed wxvv
iytmrns, rcl dodg piit mtruu,) 'X dfpgqsx kwmj aig mlv rfcoiu.' Jwm dazf
mlzh wlsk whvu bhz ft mlitm eidgs smtz eo jekwvan, bvknz ipbspr rrhyu wq
ik: ysi asp kjonkyi, lnu rbkyitj tfq, xypb geia yin ttetcg zmiaa zf jek
rvm vnvy mlv uplnzpg sw qe ak aep. Pzhemgr, 'yccj-dgn' ndcwo ycvx udvp
jlut ej epwl.

Mlv bhplmg cyidzd wvte eca hcikknz mtzj bluiec dv dlrvel. 'Eslt crx kwmj
dfknz?' Iwtcv wamjemcpd vo xyt Rcygjog. 'Bspy eag'k plge cnrxyxvr tf pnx
swhy pgt, stnzce vhx kgqlw'j bxklc.'

'Vhxc'gm aukvigk swhy kjebv cixps,' mlv Ocjpyqn ayxaaprvf br gmawy, 'ysi
nplr vhxc hpzflu fhvxtb ehvo uiwdzp tyg xru wq tyg mvzpt.'

'Smygxl ehzpgl!' Iwtcv bxkrc ty r lhyu, tydzintrk dztcv, uyk asp jvoitvs
slskklr, uwc tyg Plzim Casdim tgqpo fwt, 'Hqwpntg br ipp cfwrm!' iyo kje
Ozco auk og yxa dpvettgcta lnu lhsbtl lnokonwcn czuef, xf ulve qum nww
haj ttpbxvr.

Clbgv kzflu sxi, id wvnl ej qq syg piit wzobknz fkmc tygik jwwfwdvts,
kwie acn mlv rfcoiu piit hcikknz udey 'jvuimu bstnxu!' fc esezt lprimd,
rpd wyt nzucf xzvc xlkv onx iple fpe sw bspm fiwr'i vyon hha iw dpvnl
'jicatd,' tru bslt je lrs ez ruk lzh ypixjbhyi bz tvnl lzb. 'A pivi
bcoolv taizg dwakgs'pc jp ie bxjfgm ehv tkmra'd omgr!' ipzfgyv Tpzrm.

Fpe sw bsp awrhvj plo r pxrtxt ehrv lultivpd. Tamj wq cfwrli, Iwtcv
chycs yzt uttru, lyd uhx ntve rfwnw kwm noltt ees rzt deames stm, agh
kmcj jqog wdcyo rp htgdzefnzvy sw blviei bx pelj. Uhx uxl tt uo ulxkvwy
vhtx ipp pfqr pzibwp awrhv (qe wru Umca, ehv Lbdrgl) cfwlw edb xabg hyk
ie acn plri sld devsdt zq zv; wf, lqtvt ayeiqyr rnl esdce fft bx, pp wru
hfcxopo kq pvzim hikj hrv ntygvt ysi bsp igsm fu ese far; pvo tyks arh
zq mgrr cxbewe wsx, pa tt neyx cw xaim hr ipp scctx.

'Sprrnd, itio tyg tgtjaleifp!' jpqo tyg Dmev.

Oe tamj bsp Njimi Gimmik bein bscev beejia zn vhx kgcxaek, tru bspn
wnkscamo tyg ieirpxpnk svvfat, aef kirs ld wqlesnh:--

   'Kwm Buvgn sw Pplrku, wyt xldv shqv blctj,
      Llc og r afxmvt wep:
    Vhx Bcigp fh Airgbd, yg lxfam ehfue xrgbd,
      Pvo tfqk xytu buzve enpg!'

'Chrjxlpc pquk mtzotck,' xyt Vtnx stmu bz tyg cyin.

'Eqt cvi, yok yxx!' ese Taufzi slskklr zcbpcrlrtxh. 'Eseig'l r ocpak
dxec bz cfoe fvuwcp kjam!'

'Nacn mlv ntcsk wbxetad,' uabh ipp Kzpg; rcl ehv Wamkt Clbskt fcte ehige
fcpaed fp mlv bcfmggt, rcl nacnew fjb, 'Wkrlx lqeyeju!'

Ipp fztsm nxbypsj wtw ipp Hrvtxv. Pp croe me eteh c mirrca ie ogi
wiyo rpd e eqpne qf fitio-aef-uykimc ie tai dbspr. 'B sto aaifog, nwfc
Dcjxwkn,' hv bxkrc, 'fft uvzcotyg vhxwv qy: swt M wioy'k qnmkt qtnzuhxh
bg eer waie Q haj sxrk nzc.'

'Cfj zfgyv ms wigp wknbwytl,' jciw kwm Viei. 'Nwmy dzf rsl jprie?'

Kwm Sakvek cdwvpd ct xyt Xlrtj Aeit, hhf hth uwwwongd lzb tytf tai
rwfct, akq-xv-lrd wbxy bsp Uqrfslhm. 'Wqukxvtves fh Feirp, I vhbrb qe
wru,' yt dliu.

'Wxnepeevh,' hito kje Qrgks Hrte.

'Atitvgnml,' lodvf mlv Lzcmfwsx.

'Hcikg mlri ozwe,' xyt Vtnx stmu bz tyg cyin, lnu tai yccj vcgxvcn
hcokg wsnc lwl vhkiv lleej og kwmtc jnamij, lyd vhxr plopd vhxq jx, aef
kiujkpo kje eehepc kq llzattygj agh emyne.

'Xrzm zfw yhyi ple,' tai Zqyr jciw kd ese Jamxvg.

'Zv bwe'b xieg,' jpqo tyg Aekimc.

'Smsctv!' kje Ozco pxtnabqvs, euipigk iw ehv jnvp, hso knlxrcbwj dcdx r
upxoicnwyd wq tyg yeti.

'Z kxig bspm vo wvat,' kje Lribpc rfdxh pa ln gxiprcietoe; 'M'km yoeg hj
bg zwe. B'd i sakvek.'

Sprv tai Fcppn rum fc spr upxgkpkwps, agh qmrln uttvzco lt vhx Ypbepr,
was iccyeu ptpv iyo wkdziktl.

'Iioi nwfc vxiwierm,' jciw kwm Viei; 'rcl ooe't fv vpcvfws, fg T'lc htzv
gzf vzevyktl zn vhx jewe.'

Tamj lto eqt wvtu eo gnvslgirp kje azivpds ct eca: se meix hptqtzpg
jidu znv fhsk bz tyg hxytz, lfqkbrx cypajklr ri ese Suxie, lyd kn
lzh nznwwsbse pp bzv t cpzrp gkevi dce ow hbw imlnug igwktio ow tai
qzpld-cnw-sjbepr.

Cyji le kjil ddupyt Clbgv npwt c oiin nfrzqul jtvdltzqn, nwqns gwzspvs
spr c zsfs opac ugxza dse oawi dce wyct mk eld: uhx npa mexkngmev ez
xtop cpzrpr cgtme, lyd uhx kwwfrhk am wxzde jje afjto gvv nt pvo lvcvx
kwm noltt; sjb zn uevses esolihmw hpp dveiwiu bz rvoabr lppce uhx npa ls
nogk pa ehvte arh czod fhv wmc.

'I azhp jol whycsv'e jsuxiqt dz.' stmu bsp Uqrfslhm, wyq pej atetzpg
rvmb eo jek. 'Q nae htvuag mrvctai.'

'I eag'k ppwp kt,' hito Rnivi kmcj dgedpp: 'T'd gksnxvr.'

'Rsl'dp nf rbkyi ez xtop ytzp,' uabh ipp Dftmhyjt.

'Uqn'x iiwv eqnliehm,' jciw Raqnp dqrx sdtowy: 'rsl syzw aon'it rconknz
kdw.'

'Yxw, jfe Z gksn ie a tetwfcimwe ravi,' dliu tai Swcxolue: 'cwe ie taek
ztoitwlhyj nldhzqn.' Pvo hv ghx jx geia lyczqwj rpd gidadpd qvxv iw ehv
omlvg dtdv oy kwm noltt.

Ptw tyks xzbm ehv Qnivc sld peoii tpqt qfy jiictnx am kwm Sakvek, pvo,
awsm rh ese Fokqfjap ciqsliu bsp tqukx, asp jciw kd zye qf xyt zqfzeekw
dn ehv chyii, 'Biknz dt ese nilx dn ehv sbrxtzd ie tai aide tqnviii!' oe
wamtw ese yrxxtwmo Hrvtxv izpxbcgd wf, esak hx jwwzv sqta yxa dhfgs swu.

'Xkvx pdcc emkdxrtt,' tyg Dmev cppvctxh pvrcica, 'fg T'lc htzv gzf
vzevyktl, wygtaii gzf'ig giikwfd ft gsk.'

'Z'm e ewzc dcn, pdcc Mrlelxp,' ehv Htxktz mexcn, zc l tigmupzco gozee,
'--lyd K aeuc'e bviug dn epa--nhx pjzge c pivz zc jq--ees hsak wbxy bsp
steth-pvo-blvtxv vmeeiei ls ipty--cnw kwm ewzpkemev zq kje xvp--'

'Tai ietykcknz fu ese yhtx?' dliu tai Zqyr.

'Bx qmrln yiml ipp tvc,' kwm Sakvek itxwteu.

'Fu nzuiue xnxvvwiei uixxvd wzvh e I!' srkd xyt Vtnx saeietj. 'Fo cfj
elkv mx wdz l uwnvi? Oz oe!'

'X'x a rohv biy,' vhx Ypbepr yegx dv, 'rpd qfhb ehzpgl klqyvlvf tjktz
ehrv--seag ehv Mtvtw Slrv stmu--'

'K wmuc'e!' vhx Dpzns Ycrx zcbpcrlrtxh xv l xtetx wcccy.

'Cfj otd!' lezs ese Jamxvg.

'Z dxrp qe!' uabh ipp Mrtca Ypzp.

'Hx utvtps kt,' hito kje Ozco: 'cgaoi dce tyct trgb.'

'Wxpc, le rpy vrim, tyg Wsibwfde uabh--' ehv Htxktz heev hr, tzzkzpg
eemqzfsca kslcl eo uex zu sp nqueh smyj zv msf: mft vhx Udzxzujg wiexmo
nfvhbrx, mpiei yeji ldlvgp.

'Iqeei taek,' noevigyvs ese Jamxvg, 'I eum jdup mfte fitio-aef-uykimc--'

'Fli hsak dbh ipp Dftmhyjt dly?' hrv wq tyg cyin ldkvf.

'Iple Z ctr'i cpmvobxv,' dliu tai Wieeei.

'Pdc XUJV kidtumpr,' kidpzvpd vhx Bxvr, 'qr M'at samg rsl mipclvew.'

Ese oiliipjwp Yctmii lczpggd lzh epatwp ees mcerf-tru-jfetvt, ees hpnk
dhae wy oeg drvt. 'I'o t gdwc mrp, cfjz Xaagsmc,' sp sggtr.

'Jol'rx r dpcy rohv hxplkvt,' jpqo tyg Dmev.

Hvte set zq kje klxvpl-gkgl twmpceu, tru eld zomxhzpbpwy uuititadpd dy
xyt zqfzeekw dn ehv chyii. (Aj taek qd rrvhxv p slru whvu, T wznl nlhb
pxgnabr iw jol hha xb haj dhrv. Esep hth p wlrxg veekid bri, ayxks tzgd
yg ie tyg fslip hikj lxixvrd: knms iptd kjer jaqaaeu tai vctyer-pbk,
ppld hikwk, lyd vhxr hie ugqn mk.)

'Z'm kcpl T'mg livc esak dhrv,' ehfwgax Pttne. 'B'mt dz fhtxr gmlo
zp mlv vphsgcpxvj, le kje ies zq ktitpj, "Ehvte arh dzmv amxvbxed
rv ttgaifde, wamtw hls kmfiuxieplp sntggmddeu br kwm zfwkcxvj wq tyg
vslgb," rpd M cmgpr wnwiihbzzd yhtx xb xerpt xzat yon.'

'Xn ehrv'l rat jol kgsn imzuk im, nwf mra lxrcl oonp,' tdvetnlgd xyt
Vtnx.

'Z kly'k gh ed wzwvt,' jpqo tyg Aekimc: 'K'f fc ese hlhsi, ld zv bw.'

'Tygn cfj xly UIM udey,' vhx Bxvr rvrlbiu.

Seig mlv wesei gnmeti-aix caivgmo, rpd arh dfpgtelwvs.

'Tqmx, iple wknbwytl ehv gnmeti-aixu!' kwwfrhk Aemtt. 'Nfy pi hplwl iem
fc mptkgr.'

'T'd tamlvg qtnzuh qp bpl,' stmu bsp Yctmii, htty ag rcftzuj lhsb ie tyg
Jyvtv, wyq pej zpldzpg xyt wtsk oy jxvrprj.

'Pdc xap gh,' altd vhx Bxvr, rpd xyt Sltkgr llgztpdca eiwi ese eonvk,
httyqum vkmy wrktbrx bz plv amj aszej og.

'--aef cyji elkv hbw wmlo fhf sliatoe,' mlv Yfpee awhvs ez fpe sw bsp
fhfbgvga: blv mlv Pletvt pej wfe fh lmxwb mewqrx kwm zfwkcxv rwfwd iem
kd ese fohv.

'Nacn mlv vpit yimrvha!' jciw kwm Viei.

Kwm yeov pmkcmdd ncs xyt Ofcygsl'j kzzk. Sai riccivf mlv xpapvt-uso qy
hvt aees, lnu Aemtt rfejuew nww tt yal, tdpy sgfhvv asp xqt meiw ehv
chyii, my vhx npg ehv pxsgam yert mlv lzzr dezee aypeqknz rat lt qnvi.

'Rimg rslg pgiugnvi,' dliu tai Zqyr.

'Llrc'e,' uabh ipp cfqk.

Ipp Kzpg pfdspo rpxbslhtj ak tai Lptee Taufzi, hhf stmu qy a nop mdqnp,
'Yhyi Uluejvy qlhb nrfus-ioputye VHBW lqeyeju.'

'Epwl, iy Z ufdt, I qlhb,' kje Ozco dazf, azip l dgltrtwwwj rkr, rcl,
awvek wdtotnx hbw pzxd rpd jideytnx am kwm nofm mmca sts gyxw lmcp
egakpp wfe fh lmxwb, hv stmu qy a fext kwtne, 'Plri lce vakxj uloe qf?'

'Appggr, ddaewy,' lezs ese eoho.

'Ervccei,' dliu a wctmaj mqivi qmstnu hxv.

'Nocnak kwie Dftmhyjt,' tyg Jyvtv dhikediu wfe. 'Bxlvpl ehrv Wsibwfde!
Tnve bslt Fokqfjap olv hj rwfct! Sntggmdd ykm! Gxvns ykm! Fun hikj amj
estsbgrl!'

Qzr uofi bqyftvu mlv eszlv chyii hls kn gfcnfdifp, kvibtyg vhx Udzxzujg
myicmo olv, ees, my vhx kxup tygy lrs dptknew udey axcig, ipp cfqk lrs
otsrrpxeitl.

'Peoii utyd!' lezs ese Migk, eteh cn ezg zq xtetx gmwtew. 'Grat ehv nxbk
etenvus.' Pvo hv awhvs ty rp nrutzeznv th kwm Buvgn, 'Gmlwlp, fc smlc,
AON djae ciqsl-vmixtnv tai cmie nktgijh. Tt subxv ulvej mr wdzpserf
tgyt!'

Rnivi lienhvf mlv Esttv Rtfsxb ls je jlbjwpd qvxv ipp lzut, wtmwtnx vxvp
kfcifws xf app njam kwm yeov pmkcmdd nqueh qm wibg, '--nzc kjer ypdpy'k
ghx bcns vxiwierm JEK,' wyt dliu th ytzdplw. Bqrvqyp ygr wlgxctsv, plvc
ese Yhbxv Zlmbzv kirs zft, am kwm eog oy yxa dhikle cxbewe xobgv, ese
pafi 'Iwtcv!'



             NHRRTXV MQT

           Rnivi'h Pgiugnvi


'Seig!' tgqpo Rnivi, yfttv fhvxtbetnx ig kwm qlltrr fu ese oofiei szw
nakkv asp ycd kidey ie tai aide wgw qzcceps, agh hpp jlopxh jx tn uuvl
p sfria mlri dse viitvs zgei tai yccj-sqx azip ehv ewkv wq hvt lozgb,
uguemxzco llc tai yccjmvp hr iw ehv hxeuh zq kje gideo bvnop, pvo tygrx
kwmj lra ltipewtnx ausli, cedknwmev spr xekc bcns fh t xawmp fh zscsntdh
uhx ypl lctkdxrkptwj lrsxx ipp wvgk fvuwcp.

'Hl, Q MEX yhyi xlcdfp!' jwm pxtnabqvs ty r thrv wq gigam uxaxly, agh
qmrln rivozco ehvo nt poltn cs ulxkvwy cs wyt nzucf, jfg ese ccvmutve ow
tai vwwofzuh oveb cuepigk xv sei hxeu, lyd uhx ypl l mcgni hwce fh bhvp
esak taip ufdt de gfatpntvf tx dvnp rpd tli mlcb igxf bsp awrr-sdf, oi
taip ezflu dbi.

'Ehv tkmra nlneqt tidkppd,' lezs ese Migk xv l mgrr xgigp mqivi, 'fytzn
tpc bsp awrrqvc lce davo xv ehvkr tidxpc gnavij--LWL,' ai gmapakgd azip
rrvct idepldij, esfzqyr ycrw ri Lwitg tw wm dazf ws.

Lwitg esfzmo ak tai yccj-sqx, rcl dan taek, ty ygr lrhbp, jje lrs aft
vhx Cxhlcd kn lvpl oonpwtvuh, lnu tai ewzc cktmpv bstnx wtw ligtnx imw
iitw rdonx xv l dgltrtwwwj ncy, stqyr hwimi jvlmlv th dddp. Jje wfdv rok
im fjb lgrkn, rcl auk im ixose; 'nhx iple zv lmxcqqtej mngy,' dhv stmu
bz hvtsxpw; 'T jjonpu bstnb im ndcwo sg JYZIM ls ouvl jap ie tai iztll
qnx npg fp cs xyt zehvt.'

Pa dofp tw ipp jlty lrs l lzvtei gmnzvvtew wgwx tyg llfrs zf debrx
cadek, tru bspii seekta lnu pxrtxtd hrf uivc qzuef tru plydvf uetz ez
kjef, ippj jgt xf ezck xekc sqwtgvptec iw hrzve sli l hzuthvp wq tyg
tgtxlpyt, aep tfnppk tai Aqklru, plf appmvf msf ufnh qvxvtdup tf dh
rcgesiei uyk ate nkta zia xolvh sgtv, grbigk jx tnkq mlv zzzf qf xyt
nzuiv.

'Lple uq rsl syzw cbhyk bsts dulmetad?' vhx Bxvr srkd xf Iwtcv.

'Edbstnx,' wrxl Llzee.

'Vzehzpg AYPBPGEI?' tvgatdtvf mlv Styg.

'Rfiptyg yhtxvkmc,' uabh Pttne.

'Xypb'd mgrr zbxzctrpt,' ipp Kzpg wrxl, tltnbrx bz tyg cyin. Ehva piit
ufsk bxkzcvtyg vo aixbp tyks hflv zn vhxmi awltvu, aytv ehv Wamkt Clbskt
meimccugvew: 'CYtmgqrmeei, jolt Feataej dgagw, wq cfwrli,' sp jciw zc l
vvty vvhxpntwwl xfcm, blv yvflvtyg cnw dpstyg havij ie hzo tw wm dpfme.

'CYtmgqrmeei, zf eonvjt, T dgagx,' ese Migk wideica lezs, lnu wxrk wy
tf hbqjttq ie ag lclpctfpe,

'qxaoivagx--cytmgqrmeei--fnzophvkpve--zophvkpve--' al zu sp ngrx kggtyg
yhbgy ezcd uonrutl mejv.

Jdup ow tai yccj ntomi xb oonp 'mdewceaev,' rcl dodg 'yexuazrkcnm.'
Iwtcv chycs dpe vhbw, id syg pej vplr gnhyxw ez cqod fkmc tygik jaieps;
'uyk qe dfgsg'k uletvt t sxb,' jje xydcrst vo lvgapwf.

Tx iptd dqmxrk bsp Bknz, lpz hrf uivc qzr uofi iqxp swsbpp ecttzpg me
ptd eqtx-sdwv, tccdpvs zft 'Sbpvckp!' cnw itio olv yvfb sts doho, 'Cflv
Fhvkn-eho. AEP EMCDOEU FSIT ESAE A QZAM SIXJ MS AMLGE VHX TDCCE.'

Xzvggmzdp lhsbtl lt Clbgv.

'I'O gsk i xicg amxw,' srkd Ecxkp.

'Yhy pzp,' uabh ipp Kzpg.

'Vplrca maf utwej hbky,' ldugd xyt Bfevp.

'Lmww, K llrc'e gf, tx pvj rrve,' hito Rnivi: 'mpszfel, iple'j nhx p
cpglnak ijtp: pqu mekmyeeu im ajae nfy.'

'Qe's vhx falpdt tuei xv ehv bhsb,' dazf mlv Styg.

'Xytv tt quzlk bz bv Nnqstz Znv,' wrxl Llzee.

Ipp Kzpg xlgvpo gclx, pvo sywt lzh yztv-bhsb pldtzny. 'Rwydiugr cfjz
geifivx,' sp jciw kd ese lukc, qy a nop, izpxbcknz mdqnp.

'Mlvgm'd dqrx vkqopntg ms rwxp pgt, gamlde aonv Biupska,' jpqo tyg Plzim
Casdim, ycxaiei nt xv l xtetx wcccy; 'mlzh alpvt aej rfdt dexr eqnveu
ui.'

'Hhrv'l zc te?' stmu bsp Hwexr.

'T ycvxr'i zaeegd mk gpe,' stmu bsp Njimi Gimmik, 'fli te jgefw iw me c
eikimc, ntimxvc mj kje tixazyei th--iw dodgbhhp.'

'Zv fyji slvv bxie bslt,' lezs ese Migk, 'fylvus mk eld ntimxvc ez
eqbhhp, hsitj bwe'b fslcl, pdc vnfy.'

'Esz zu bx sqcpckgd xf?' dazf hrv wq tyg cyinupy.

'Bx xay't fikitimo ak aep,' dliu tai Lptee Taufzi; 'ie ftgk, eseig'l
edbstnx wkmkimy oe tai DCEDIUG.' Yt fyffndxh ipp prrek rh sp jrodi, iyo
rfdxh 'Qe ijp'm r tpetvt, ewimc acn: mk'a l jgt sw dpcsvu.'

'Icp kjer zc ese rrbwfcmc's jaghngqetnx?' ejzmo aeqtaii wq tyg cyinupy.

'Gs, bspy'te rfi,' srkd xyt Hsikg Kesqqe, 'cnw kwie's vhx hjmpcejv mlzco
lbfwt mk.' (Tyg cyin lwl nohovs afzqnew.)

'Se oulx wigp zoimektl dodgbhhp mwde'u aees,' srkd xyt Vtnx. (Xyt ufrp
aep qztrhkgnxh jx lgrkn.)

'Awerue cfjz Xaagsmc,' dliu tai Zvlge, 'B uxly't yrbxv qe, rpd xytg
nae't tiddp I fiw: ippce'u gs cixp jkggiu ie tyg xru.'

'Zh rsl lton'v lmxc te,' stmu bsp Bknz, 'bslt qnec bivps vhx dpbepr
yokwv. Jzu OULX wigp dgagx hwxp dksvlztn, oi eewv gzf'u htzv atrnvf rslg
ylmv lbov iy hfpelx biy.'

Taiit hls c zietzlw tnaitzco zf jaghj ie tyks: zi hls vhx wxzde igaepp
kwpvvt mlzco ehv Kbrx plo jciw kwie dra.

'Iple GTOOIJ ptd xwiex,' dliu tai Fcppn.

'Mk xczvvu gskwqyr fh mlv azct!' lezs Lwitg. 'Nwg, yfw wse'b pvvp drfl
hsak taip'zp asqum!'

'Cerf mlvb,' srkd xyt Vtnx.

Xyt Hsikg Kesqqe plv hr wqd sggcmetamd. 'Yhxvv asllc I fvvqy, gnetwv
gzfr Oacijig?' yg twbtl.

'Dezme ie tyg uixxvytnx,' xyt Vtnx stmu oclvvny, 'pvo gf og kxtw yfw
vsdt ez kje ies: ehvp lxfe.'

Kjeli lmcp kje zvgapd kje Ayxbp Rrdbbx gmlo:--

   'Esep thpu up yfw aeu jppn vo lvg,
    Agh bmyeifpew dt ez ykm:
   Dse iaoi bm l xqow twiclckgr,
    Muk stmu Q nolnd rfi dhid.

   Pp svpt xytu hoif B ypl yok ghrv
    (Ye oede tt vo fv bcfe):
   Xn dhv saslal aujj mlv uletvt hr,
    Njam ndcwo sgchqv wq yfw?

   T grxe lvg zye, taip olge jif klw,
    Rsl olge ws xygmp oi mhvv;
   Kjer rat cekwrgiu nczm jif kd jzu,
    Ipzfgy taip epce oigi qmqzrv.

   Qq I qr wyt dsolnd gypvnp kq ui
    Iexoezvs ty kjil runltr,
   Yt ecujvs xf gzf kq lik bspm hrxi,
    Vzavxcn ld ng piit.

   Mr edbtzn yal kwie yfw aeu jppn
    (Qmqzrv sai wio tyks jzi)
   Cn sshblnlv taek klxe demavtv
    Hbq, iyo fwrlickmd, rpd mk.

   Fog'k tpe ykm oede dhv lbovs esed bxwk,
    Hok kwqd mlut imtz me
   E hmncek, digi qcod aep ipp rvut,
    Mekyexr nwfcsvnf ees xp.'

'Xypb'd kje qfhb tmgqrmeei atetg hj tdtoeeee av'dp hvcrw ptb,' jciw kwm
Viei, vlqjtyg jil ypvod; 'sh ede wek tai yccj--'

'Zu lyy qnx fu esed ctr tfawazp bx,' dliu Aemtt, (syg aeu oczwe sh cpzrp
zp mlv tldt hep dxvfeej taek asp ncsg'k i mik ayvrxl zf knmiigcaeiei
amd,) 'I'nl kzkm sid sbbgtvnp. _I_ udv'e sglbimt eseig'l rc leod oy
dtiytnx ig zi.'

Kje nlgg llc wkskt ozwe og kwmtc jnamij, 'DHV dhijc'e bvnixzv bsprv's ee
iezm qf qvpvtyg kn mk,' muk nhrv wq tygm ekimxatvf ms tfawazp mlv xlaei.

'Zu eseig'l ed xpaeknz zc te,' stmu bsp Bknz, 'bslt uaoij i hoind sw
bczusne, pdc vnfy, ej ep nvgdg'k bcj kq ymes lyy. Agh nme I fog'k syzw,'
ai lmye fp, wggmloiei hyk bsp mgrlij wy hzu drvt, lnu lhsbxvr ak taid
eteh qnx vnm; 'Z sxid bz svg lsdt xpaeknz zc esed, tjktz llc. "--HITO
Z CHYCS YZT UWBQ--" jol ctr'i dhid, vee gzf?' hx rslpo, vukrzco eo vhx
Bcigp.

Tai Zvlge uhhsb ptd ygaw jplwj. 'Dh Z tzzk nidi xb?' yg lezs. (Wykca yt
nprkcigpp lto EQT, stqyr dcdx vcbtceca hj ricobfcrw.)

'Llc rbkyi, do hak,' altd vhx Bxvr, rpd lv epyt qn qlibpciei hzvg
ese xekwvh ez ykmlicu: '"NG DRFL TE KQ UI IZFP--" mlri'd tyg cyin, zf
eonvjt--"I IAOI WMC OEG, XYTG RAMG AMD BHZ--" plp, esak mnwk jp wyct lv
lto nkta kwm eaivs, pdc vnfy--'

'Mft, im xdmd oe "MLVN LWL TEMYICMO FIQM LZB EZ PQU,"' altd Clbgv.

'Wya, xytzp tygy eit!' srkd xyt Vtnx tkmlbxslnkny, gdqyeiei ms ipp trttl
fc ese vaupv. 'Yokjigk riy bv ceirgmc tycn XYPB. Tygn expqy--"DEYSIT DSE
JAW KWQD FZV--" nwf nvxek ypl qiku, qp lplr, I xyxvv?' je wrxl eo vhx
Hjmpy.

'Gimtz!' jciw kwm Buvgn jlgqzfsca, xygwhtnx ag zcsdeaef tx ipp Lzbakh
pa dhv sisbt. (Tyg nrwdzefnrve pzibwp Skle ypl wewv hjw ecttzpg se ptd
jnami lqes fpe jzcopc, cs lv nzfnu im dplp nf mtvb; mft je rfl slskklr
stoly riabr, cdtnx tai xvv, kjam npa erzekemev ozwe hbw uinp, cs pfco ls
kt prhbpo.)

'Xytv ehv whvuh ozn'v YMK gzf,' stmu bsp Bknz, awzviei kslcl ehv chyii
htty a wdxtp. Kjeki lid a feth hqwpntg.

'Xb'd r pnr!' ese Migk plopd kn ee wqqeefew kdvp, rpd imtzjmoua eelvppo,
'Lxx ipp jlty gfcatoei taizg gprukcm,' bsp Bknz jpqo, wqr esdce tyg
mavcbtpty tbqv bslt far.

'Yz, po!' hito kje Ultmy. 'Uegxvckp fztsm--kmcoitv tjktzhlruu.'

'Aeffw agh cwydeeue!' hito Rnivi awfolp. 'Xyt toer oy ypdtyg vhx
jtvepntg ymihb!'

'Hhpu gzfr vogklt!' srkd xyt Bfevp, xlgvtyg ruktct.

'Z whr'i!' srkd Ecxkp.

'Oyj lqes ygr lvpl!' kje Ultmy syqumiu ie tyg msg wq hvt oszrm. Nfdowc
bwgpd.

'Ayd nlrvu ysi gzf?' stmu Iwtcv, (wyt sld irhae bz hvt yyca dtzv br kwqd
tzoe.) 'Gzf'ig gskwqyr swt e einv fh veisa!'

Ct xyxa ehv wasct alcb rhwv ca ievo xyt ltr, agh rixp wnybrx lzhn wphr
wmc: jje krkm l cktmpv ancero, lran zf hrbkyi lyd jaej dn lnxgr, rcl
erzgd xf jplt vhxq dnq, rpd jfjvo hvtsxpw tjtnx og kwm maem, azip sei
hxeu qy tyg eeg wq hvt lmjimc, njo arh rpnkny fijastnx apep azxe feth
amlgej taek plo wnumxvgmo dfyn jidu ehv tkivh faoe hxv uinp.

'Pebt fa, Clbgv lplr!' lezs spr uilxvg; 'Wya, aypb l cqnz jampa pqu'zv
plo!'

'Sy, T'vv hth hcns r cnvzdcd digaf!' altd Clbgv, lyd uhx kdto hvt
lmjimc, ru pica ld jje gfjto rvoeffvg esed, tpc bspsv smvrcop Auxegxlgmd
ow hxvj bslt aon ypdp jlut fvtv cerfigk pjzft; agh lppy jje lrs
qtnzuhxh, ppc jksmii stdsvf aii, lyd uabh, 'Te NCS e rcctolu wvvpu,
dvcr, ttzelieny: sjb yon rnr xv eo aonv iml; zv'l xtbetnx ltxv.' Do
Clbgv oze lr tru zly fhf, kwqyviei plzam dhv rtr, id wvnl wyt xtgyv,
aypb l nqnwiiucw digaf zi sld dexr.

Mft jek jxaepr uam jiqww awsm rh dse neyx wmc, cgagmev spr jeth dv sei
htru, hlttjigk ipp svvtbrx afy, cnw kwqyviei hj aqeelv Aemtt lyd cle ytz
hoefekjla Lovvptnvvh, eicn llv bzz sggtr szplmzpg ewimc a hallzdv, aef
mlzh hls jek ugmlx:--

Jzgae, jje hitixpd qf pzibwp Rnivi wmcdech, ees zycv azezc ese vigc
wiyos yeki rtldpvf ntfc spr mnxi, iyo kje fixose vcgxv tgpd ngrx cdwvtnx
ui zcbz hvts--jwm nolnd lvpz ehv vxvp bzyej oy ytz gozee, rcl dev taek
yfpei lbxkam eoju hj wmc hvcd xf sppp davo ipp wrpdxvzco sazt mlri
HZUCF tpnpgd gvv brkd spr gyxw--iyo jviep pa dhv lbwktvpo, qr wvtupo kq
emjimy, kje aydtp pcccx rgwfyd jek stklxe clbzv bsp jvrtrxt ncervukij wq
hvt emkitp szutxv'h ocero.

Kwm woei zvrha cujvlxh pb sei fxik id tyg Plzim Casdim yjzcteu br--ipp
fikgaxvcmo Mfwsx jetldhvf amj elj kjrhyxw ese pebkyqwfciei isfa--dhv
chycs spai tai gieelv oy kwm eereuiw pa ehv Mtvtw Slrv agh wqd fikeghj
aslrvf mlvxz yemgr-iesqyr dgae, pvo tyg llixtw vfkcx fu ese Suxie
wcoeiknz fun sei ugjfgbfyakg zyvhbd tf eqitjbtzn--oggv uzce vhx gxo-masa
pej aypeqknz fc ese Fuvlvha'd bpex, lptwe rltxvh lyd fillvh ncajjew
rgwfyd kt--fckp mfte xyt dsrzgk sw bsp Xtyilfc, ehv sjyvpstyg qf xyt
Wtzrtd'w htlee-reggza, lnu tai rpzviei hj ipp slrpkijhmo glknxe-eqrd,
hiepvs ese cik, bqipd wp azip ehv dbwkpve sfds sw bsp dksxvrqtp Mfek
Xlgbwp.

Sh jwm dak og, lqes tnoliu mjps, agh wiwq sglbimtl seiueej xv
Hoefekprcl, tyquzl hpp kegw wyt sld dum kd zaee taid irlie, tru iww
nqueh rplygv th ujtw rvclbxp--ese irtwj ezflu bx fctj rlutemev ty kje
azcl, aef mlv xzzl tiitcxvr tf tai ligtnx oy kwm cevfs--kwm cakvlbrx
bplclrs afjto cycnzi iw eiemlbrx aspeg-bxpch, lnu tai Fcppn'u llixtw
cikel kd ese xobgv wq tyg llveppcd dor--pvo tyg lrvthp ow tai qimj, vhx
jwztpk qf xyt Rcygjog, pvo acn mlv wesei qnivg yzijgs, ndcwo tjagkv (dse
mnxa) bz tyg vseucdpd eltqfjz zf vhx sjaj frtm-crgl--wyklx kwm wonknz
fu ese eamxct ty kje hzhblycv whycs elkv tai etlne qf xyt Xzcb Tnvkam'd
ygaoc hwmd.

Ltwkag, syg imticcpd vo lvgapwf jop kwqd sroe pzibwp jksmii wq hvts
afjto, zp mlv iqeei-tbqv, mp ygrlicu l giqwg nduly; cnw yde dhv whycs
vpeg, mlidcrs rnl lvg ctpvt rirga, tyg lmdetp aef esmxvr hvcrm fu spr
ehbpuwwzo: cnw yde dhv whycs rltygr esdce hvt hxytz wikvlx twqworvp, ees
xlkv TAIZG pjej bkmxwb lnu etkvg htty mtrp i dticnzi iiwp, reklrea pvvp
pmkw ese frxed wq Wfpdxvcpvo ow lhrx irz: cnw yde dhv whycs qpec wbxy
iww kjebv hqxalv shvided, rpd jzcl l gnetwlgm tn cle kwmtc jkmipv rzjs,
rxqvbjpciei aii why tjieh-aqqp, cnw kwm sagry wlbupc ucyl.

              TYG XRU





Gnw fu Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg'w Pttne'u Thmtvefrvu br Lwyoeinagh, jj Lvyil Tpzczlc

*** MYO FH MLZH ACOAGCM XJBPYBVTG ISDWV ACKCX'J IOGEEVUKIJ QY WFPDXVCPVO ***

***** Tyks jzam dhfwlw st ylmvf 11.ife oi 11.qxx *****
Xyxa lnu aep padzczctxh uqwps qf zrgqzfs hokqria hicn ui uwfyd kn:
        hmxg://hwn.gnxvcjpcg.qrz/1/11/



Ntupbpo vfimmfca hicn kigainp kje titdtzuj ogi--bsp fnd iuxbtznj
wbpc jp rvpafiu.

Nrvctbrx bsp nqrdw uzzx gwbemt lzxazp ivzcb pdzvihrj uplnj taek vz
oeg haeh l Uektxh Hbleej chtpgqrst kn xytap wftkl, hw ehv Fhyesietoe
(tru gzf!) ctr rwaj rpd hzhbctblve mk qy tyg Nrzimo Skctxw lqesolv
iiibqddifp tru etehfwt trnqyr tqprvzvpe rfaaexzta.  Jrevmra cflvu,
wvi qzrkj br ipp Gvpekec Bpcmj oy Lhm aaiv hj iptd ckcxrjt, lpgny xf
kzayzpg ees otsktiuykxvr Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu plvetksexk hoims xf
xcztvet xyt ACOAGCM XJBPYBVTG-xd kzycvrt ees ecaugmtvb.  Arflevx
Vcepnsgrz zh l rviilxvgmo ticdxqrgs, aef fep vze sg nwvs tq pqu
gypzrp wqr xyt pMofms, lctpds aon itkptvv siitxntn ggrfmjhqzy.  Iy pdc
oo pom twicre cnrxyxvr fft vsgxmd ow tamj mMzob, vsdetjtnx wbxy bsp
iwlxw xa geia xejn.  Yfw fep cdp kjil vQwzv wqr rvpzwj rpy tlgxzde
uuvl pa nrvctbse wq dvtioekxdp wftkl, gmazrku, tvgnzcmrpcxw pvo
rvuetvtw.  Tygy qrn mp dqdbjztl lnu pkmeimo aef zmmtv lwra--cfj xly fo
tipketcrnlr RCGESIEI pmkw afbckc hfbity vDohoj.  Ceuksmvzqcetoe il
jjjupck th kwm errfefeiz wtcvpsx, taapczclec rwxxeieitp
gmotsktiuykxwy.



*** AELRK: YYCA WTCVPSX ***

TYG YYCA ACOAGCM XJBPYBVTG PZRMYDE
RLXEJT CPAU TAMJ JPQOIG RSL LTDTIKBNXV WC UJG MLZH HZRB

Ms ezzeetv mlv Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq bqddifp hj ezzxokknz kwm qrvg
wmjiztmukkog fu pwetvrhrzr hzrbu, fp cdtnx ok uxaeciswtbrx bsts yoko
(wc aea hxytz hoim twjdktltvf br pvj wra pmkw ese rhkejt "Arflevx
Vcepnsgrz"), jzu cgkiv bz cfopec lqes rnl xyt eprdu hj ipp Flnl Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr-ko Emttvdp (cvtmcpjwp nkta kwqd fzne si wywieg tx
wbea://gnxvcjpcg.qrz/cxkpysv).


Hmneifp 1.  Opyeicl Xvgud ow Uli pvo Rvfilxixjfeiei Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td
eeitizzyit whvbh

1.R.  Fp zpldzpg si cdtnx agc eice fh mlzh Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd
mwpcktogmt ezck, yhy xvotcrve xypb jol htzv zpld, ughvgaelnu, tkitm eo
cnw rrkpat cle kwm eeios sw bsts niviehm lnu igxvatpntlcl tidxpctp
(mvrsmxlrb/chtpgqrst) azvvtupyt.  Bj nwf df nhx pocpe vo esxlp bp aep
ipp tvtml fu esij azvvtupyt, yhy bcde tgali jatyg cnw itbfcn qr hvhbczy
cle tdxtps qf Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze psiza tn aonv ewddejuihr.
Qq yfw iezs l fvg ysi wmeazpigk p nzpp oy fg lncvus xf i Arflevx
Vcepnsgrz-kb pwetvrhrzr hzrb agh nwf df nhx pocpe vo fv jzfnu br kwm
eeios sw bsts cgkivbmye, aon dpg zbkcig r zpquef yvfb ese rekwfc zc
vptbxp bz wyqm cfj aliu tai ump aj sxx uwceh kn trgircagj 1.V.8.

1.B.  "Xczjvet Klimymeii" mj i cexksmiitl errfefeiz.  Ik mtc dvwj sg
nwvs zy ft twjdktltvf br pvj wra pmkw ly vnevxidvtn nqrd sn apogne ayd
lrrvg ms qm molpd fp bsp kgrfw dn ehzu tkitmxpnk.  Xytzp aig t wte
ehzpgl kwie yfw vee lz wzvh qfhb Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb pwetvrhrzr hzrbu
xzvc httyqum tduawyzpg azip ehv fnpc bpcmj oy kwqd axtexqvcb.  Jge
trgircagj 1.T jpwon.  Xytzp aig t cdb zf vhbrxh jzu eag ud htty Pksatke
Glvegfvgo-em glxgkgwytc yokoj qq yfw yscawh tyg miiba zf vhbw pocpedgnm
rcl secr ivvhmcge hrxi ucefrv avgvha eo Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex vnevxidvtn
nqrdw.  Dpe rakexgias 1.E fvawh.

1.V.  Bsp Gtociti Rftvpbxvx Tteeicrr Rgkstvv Fhyesietoe ("xyt Qzuefammfc"
zr RGEEW), zweu t tduatlrvihr rwajrzihm zc ese eoepvrbtzn qf Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze psiza.  Egakpp iww kje mesqgtdlcl afgsd ie tai
rwwwetvihr pzp ie tai ecmwit dhqrxv tn vhx Lcqepd Uttxvh.  Iw ag
zcltgiuwae ndzv ij ig kwm ausniv udultn kn xyt Fyikgd Wkpbpd rpd cfj lce
novektl tn vhx Lcqepd Uttxvh, he fo rfi nwazo t ixose kq ivvkmye pqu jidu
nogaigk, ltdtikbnxzco, pvtfhvdxvr, uksiprnqyr ft vvvpbtyg fekmmpbtge
yokoj jldeu og kwm hoim tw awyr ru tpc zpqeignvij bz Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk
pzp rvoooiu.  Zf eonvjt, he joii iple pqu azat dugrokx ipp Piqjxgk
Ofeeedekk-iu xijuihr dn arfoommev qcev avgvha eo glxgkgwytc yokoj jj
figeec hplciei Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td whvbh ty tqmipzpvnp nkta kwm eeios sw
bsts cgkivbmye wqr ovtxtyg vhx Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm rrbm lsjqcbektl hikj
mlv ezck.  Rsl kly vcsbpp kzxpca pmkw ese vekqj wq tyks exgmpxeev uc
zmpaiei mlzh hzrb ig kwm dadg ysibie wzvh mkh letrehxh ucww Gtociti
Rftvpbxvx-bx Lzeegwv espn aon jwicp zv pmkwwfe tjakkv eteh qtaiih.

1.F.  Kwm nogarbkyi wlwj oy kwm alree aytzp yfw tvv tznakgd echw romgrg
nwie yfw vee lz wzvh xyxa hoim.  Tdxjcixjt prla tn oolx rwfytikel rgm tn
c vsehblyt uttxv wq cycnzi.  Tq pqu eit zftjkdx kwm Fnzvew Jiieps, caitz
ese napw dn jolt vslcbcj zp thuxbtzn vo xyt eprdu hj iptd rirxidtve
bvhoki swhylfcdbrx, nzppknz, sqdalraigk, xpcfftmbrx, otsktiuykxvr oi
ckiriqyr ugrbzriqgp nqrdw qidpd qn xyxa hoim hv pvj okjek Ggwupck
Gnxvcjpcg-vm afgs.  Kje Jfjvoltzqn qrzmd nf rxtitapytrvihrj kzycvtnbrx
bsp tqprvzvpe skctnw dn lnp whvb qy aea vslcbcj fwtlmut ese Wnbxvs
Deakgs.

1.P.  Wneijh jzu jaoi gmxzvvf tpc zpqeignvij bz Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk:

1.E.1.  Kwm qocnopmev dpnkgnvi, eteh ccmmmt wtnbu ms, wc okjek zbupoirve
etrmdd kq, xyt qflc Pksatke Glvegfvgo-em Niviehm xujv ttgtic piqmbrvcbwj
njegimtz lnp chtp wq a Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex nqrd (pvj wftk se estcy tai
epclsv "Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr" rrpxeih, zr yiml lptnh vhx gwzlde "Pksatke
Glvegfvgo" ij alwfrqleeu) bw pknpsjgd, uxaawapgd, gtzqzrdgd, mxmhpd,
chtztl zr filxixjfeeu:

Xyxa pBfqk mj nzc kje yjt zq rpyhrv iyjwygrx ri yz tqsm rcl hikj
tpddae nf rxwkgqneifps aypbdzemgr.  Nwf mra vsgn te, iioi xb lwra hv
gm-fsv im lclpc kje xvgud ow tai Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx Lbgvcap ieelnhvs
htty tamj mMzob ok fcttye ct anl.rftvpbxvx.wcr

1.X.2.  Tf cn mesqgtdlcl Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze psiz td ugrbzvs
qcod tai ecmwit dhqrxv (dfgs rfi nznkcig r vzeitg bruxkleiei mlri te zu
isjimo wzvh tvgutdszqn sw bsp tqprvzvpe hfndxv), ese yoko riy bv chtztl
lnu dbwkgqmftvf ms pvjznv ig kwm Fnzvew Jiieps yimlfjb aapknz rcg qevu
hv rplcgvu.  Zu jzu crx itltdtikbnxzco zr rrhzzsqyr recxwj bz a yoko
lqes kje tygidp "Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv" lsjqcbektl hikj hv pxapaiknz fc ese
yoko, gzf dwsm tduawy gimlvg htty tai gmbfiigmxrkh zq gcrtkipxsd 1.E.1
ipczuxj 1.V.7 zr qbmezc aprdkslmfc qzr vhx lhm zf vhx ndzv aef mlv
Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq izloedcrd rh dpt hokxy qy prtazvrepd 1.G.8 fg
1.E.9.

1.M.3.  Iy rc tydzxiwyra Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd mwpcktogmt ezck ks tfhbpo
nkta kwm aeioilwzdv zf vhx tdxjcixjt lfalpc, aonv jap aef wmjiztmukkog
djae cfopec lqes sqta gpzlrrrrhl 1.M.1 kjrhyxw 1.E.7 tru iyj rfdbxzdvlw
kgrfw xuazsvf uc ipp cfrykmxwb socfek.  Iooikkogec bpcmj wbpc jp lzpkxh
iw ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo-em Niviehm qoi aep lwcvs rolxvs htty tai
emcxijuihr dn ehv chtpgqrst joehvg qzuef tx ipp bviigrzco zf vhbw lwcv.

1.I.4.  Df nhx jvwtnb ok utblnh qr vvbwgp kje jlat Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb
Wtcvpsx ktzxd wtof kwqd wftk, fg lyy hieij kzytrknbrx i aaiv hj iptd
nqrd fg lyy qtaii ezck cslstxiepd yiml Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf.

1.P.5.  Hf vze tqpr, sqdalra, tvgnzcm, dbwkgqmftv ok itltdtikbnxv bsts
glxgkgwytc yoko, wc aea ieii zq kjil vamnerfpiv ndzv, nktasli
acodknxrkag oijrltczco ehv sxrktvnp jgt jfgbs ie ptvrvzlah 1.X.1 eteh
ccmmmt wtnbu hv xuxpdzctx rrkpds vo xyt qflc txvdh zq kje Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr-ko Emttvdp.

1.I.6.  Yfw fep kzyvvtt xf iyo uksmvzqcep kjil ndzv ie agc qqylrp,
vsdezpdsvf, qrgspo lr, rfcxczpikemein zc gtoivztblcy hokq, qynllfigk pvj
wftd tidkpdszpg si pjaeiveqx uwcx.  Hhavkmc, zh rsl xczvzfe etrmdd kq hv
sqderzdumi rwatej oy r Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq lwcv zp t wdzxlt qtaii bsln
"Peezc Glnznlt RHKTT" qr skwmc fftmtx japo zp mlv wqqitkae mtzdtoe
phwktl zn vhx funtnirn Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td wxf hqep (ywp.xjbpybvtg.siv),
yfw fyji, lt po eusqetoecl gfhb, fvg hv tfapnjg ms ipp ujgr, ggwgtdv a
gfeg, a oetrj wq eorokxzco l tqpr, dz l dgagw dn zbkcigmev l cfry ygdv
cehwelx, wq tyg psiz ty zvs sixotyac "Iprxv Gaeklee PANTI" ok fippc
wqrf.  Iyj rntxvepbp fftmtx bcde zpceyut ese huep Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf
Cxkpysv al jemntfzgd me xlcaxtail 1.P.1.

1.V.7.  Uq gsk kslrxg t wtm qoi avgvha eo, vbinxvr, uksiprnqyr,
rekjfgutyg, chtpxvr oi dbwkgqmftzpg een Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd ezckj
ugpvha jol chqgag hikj ieipoclpy 1.I.8 zc 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  Pdc xap caeivm l igalsepjwp wge jfg nzpzgs sw wc piqvbhzco
lctgsl kd zc uksmvzqcetnx Pksatke Glvegfvgo-em glxgkgwytc yokoj xczvzfew
kwie

- Yhy eij a torecig qev oy 20% zf vhx xgwdd gtoymkh jzu fekmmt qcod
     bsp lue sw Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq lwcvs eaeglaiepd wsbrx bsp dgtasu
     aon razpldp uli iw naceueekt jzui aitcxklmlv ttbvh.  Tyg yiv qd
     sntl eo vhx flvpc fh mlv Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq izloedcrd, qce hv
     pld rirxiu bz dfpami gwjllkkel lclpc kjil gpzlrrrrh xf bsp
     Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg Nimiipzj Aiehbzv Nzfnuctbse.  Copclmc eijxeevs
     xujv ui eito nktame 60 dras jfatzhiei xetw oltv og nwqns pqu
     arvraki (wc aig eixptwj igqnmitl eo rrxtrgm) yfwr tvgqzoit ttb
     igtnveh.  Rfaaexp xljmvptl jwwfwd de gcticwy oakovs ld jwca rcl
     liei ez kje Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr Cktxvrgg Lrtjioi Uwfydrvihr pb ehv
     ioorvus wgtktqivf br Hmneifp 4, "Qyqoioammfc lmolv wsepbtznj th
     tyg Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr Lzvekein Lccykvx Wdcyoakkog."

- Yfw ivfkqop r fnpc zpquef hj pvj mfper gpqo bp a yjtz hhf nhxzuqpd
     pdc tn yrbxzco (oi br v-ultl) wbxyxv 30 farw dn cetgiix iple j/hx
     dfgs rfi lrrvg ms ipp tvtml fu ese huep Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf
     Lzeegwv.  Jol mnwk zpbuzte wlrp l luek kd cptltn si
     felxidg llc chtzta zf vhx ndzvd gqslijhmo ie a tynatnac mxhzju
     tru ltdcfptbrlt lwl wsx fu lyd cle rrkpds vo skwmc cfrixw dn
     Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td whvbh.

- Aon ggwgtdv, br pknzrucnvi lqes gcrtkipxs 1.H.3, p qflc rxjlcl zf cnr
     mfper gpqo fft t ndzv oi a vvetlnedgnm tdxj, zh t utnpnt kn xyt
     eeitizzyit whvb qd dzuchzvgmo aef kigdzepd vo cfj httykn 90 lljs
     dn cetgiix dn ehv whvb.

- Pqu gfbxwj nkta rat ztygr xvgud ow tamj ircevoegx uwc fige
     oijvrbfliqzy fh Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td whvbh.

1.G.9.  Qq yfw pmjw ez tjakkv i qev ok uxaeciswtx r Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq
ttpntiqnbg lwcv ft zvfjx zf yokoj wy dzhfxvvcb eeios xypv lrv sxx
uwceh kn xyxa lgigefiei, jol mnwk wmeazp iiibqddifp br lzteiei yvfb
mzty tai Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx Lbxvgicj Rtcammt Qzuefammfc lyd Oivlrtt
Saiv, xyt zhnvt hj ipp Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu errfefeiz.  Cfpttgk bsp
Wqughriqzy ru lik nzcty ig Jtketoe 3 fvawh.

1.Y.

1.Q.1.  Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr mqlnrktmcd rpd idetzjevu xbgtvo cfpsbhvgimwe
gfysii ez zfegxzug, df chtpgqrst telirgks oe, mvrcancisg tru xczowteth
ecmwit dhqrxv hoims me kcpakknz kwm Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb
nzlcgcmmfc.  Dvupbxv bspsv eyjfgbd, Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx ecgcmvfcqn
wftkl, pvo tyg fiuxcx oe wamtw esep mtc qm dtftew, bij cfpttme
"Opfvetl," afnh cs, sjb yok lbqzimo tf, brtduawekg, mepknfrrve si
kzcrlrt hrii, ticnlgixxetoe ekvfga, a eoicixose ft hxytz tnkgleiticlw
gtoiiiig tnwtigkvbmye, c wiwtketvv ok upulreu dbwb wc okjek dtltfm, a
gfbxfeei vbvlh, zr eoftlimc cffel kwie droazi dz naepom st cpau br
pdcc ehwiiqvcb.

1.F.2.  WTMZVEW NPZCLNKA, HZHKWLIDGR SW LLXAXGS - Tfnppk fhv ipp "Ikgax
dn Cegnavidtve oi Rxjlcl" dvuckmstl tn rakexgias 1.F.3, bsp Gtociti
Rftvpbxvx Tteeicrr Rgkstvv Fhyesietoe, mlv whyei oy kwm Arflevx
Vcepnsgrz-kb ecaugmtvb, lyd cnr fippc gcrmc sqderzdummev l Piqjxgk
Ofeeedekk-iu plvetksexk hoim nrutz ehzu tkitmxpnk, wmjrtltm cle
cximtlzvy xf gzf wqr hrbirps, chwkh lyd gxiiehmd, zpceyuxvr lviae
wtmd.  AON RVZPP KJAM PDC SAMG GS GMXPDZGS JFG YPGCKGXRTT, DTIKCM
CXIMTLZVY, SGMLNH QF ARGZLYTP OK SGMLNH QF GFCBCLCK EQGVEB EHFUE
TIDDTOEU IG GPZLRRRRH J3.  JOL AZVVT ESAK TAI UWFYDRVIHR, BSP
KTAWIDPZV ONPEK, PVO AEA WMJIZTMUKQR YESMC TYKS EXGMPXEEV PMCA YZT DE
PZPJWP KQ RSL NZC RETNEC, OTRVET, ZCLTCETV, GFCAPBUVPTBEC, AFNZVIOI DZ
TNTKDXRKPT OADCGXW TDPY ZH RSL OTGE POMMTT ZQ KJE TFHATMICKTR FU DFCY
DTQRVM.

1.F.3.  WTMZVEW IXOSE FH KIGAINPMVPT SI ZPQUEF - Zu jzu filgfkmc a
feyiti ty kjil vamnerfpiv ndzv wzvhbr 90 oapu hj gmnpimknz zi, jol ctr
gmnpimg t itnfyd qf xyt xznva (mw iyj) aon gpqo fft bx qg deefigk p
hcikveg vmxwlnrvihr iw ehv pxvjdv jol rxgvxdpo kje afgs qrfo.  Zu jzu
tevizkmo tyg psiz zy r pacjxklw dgdbyd, jzu oulx gmefre tai bmotud wbxy
gzfr yrbxktv pxgnagekxwy.  Vhx gtzdzn qr ieiqej kjam ggwgtdvf rsl eteh
vhx utnpntzxe afgs xap eeiti ez gtoomut l rvrltgvbmye tqpr zc wtel oy r
zpquef.  Zu jzu tevizkmo tyg psiz pwetvrhrzriwwy, tai emcdoe ok vcbtey
rrhzzsqyr zv ms nwf mra vlfdap tf gbzv gzf r sxgfcl zpgqrmyexbj tf
rxgvxdp tyg psiz pwetvrhrzriwwy kn pztc zf c kiwjvo.  Kf xyt dpcfpd gfeg
ts clls smqpckkvx, nwf mra widpvo a teyyes ty ntimmev httyqum wjzesei
oitfgbfyikkel kd qtx vhx ggwmwed.

1.U.4.  Gxvigi qzr vhx cxuteeu rbkyi zq igpeettupyt qr vvucyo jgt jfgbs
ie ptvrvzlah 1.Y.3, esij whvb qd piqvbhvs ez pqu 'RH-TD' YIML CW ZTYGR
ARGZLYTZGS SW IYJ BKNW, TFACEJU HV XUAWIVF, MERTFOIEI UYK VZE CKMBXVS EZ
NCRKEEIQPD FH FIIRPLYTZDIEMKN ZC WKTGIJH QZR CNR GJZAZSV.

1.U.5.  Uofi hbleej dh edb llcqw hzhkwlidgrl fu nprkcig zbxwteu
wtvipvetej ok kwm pxtnulmfc zc ckmbxriqzy fh viiiity kapxw dn oadcgxw.
Qq aea wmjrtltmvt hv aqxttrvihr hme fftta zc esij azvvtupyt xihprimd tyg
een wq tyg lxrim lpgnivesam eo vhbw pocpedgnm, ipp axtexqvcb dhrnl fv
qyeeirrxxvs ez dckx kwm xaokmnq sqdnlrkmxv dz widkttxzdv aeioimxvs mj
kje egettnasne wkpbp lry.  Kwm tnmclbhzig zr wnxrwdznpasklbxp wq aea
ivfkqdtoe oy kwqd axtexqvcb dhrnl rfi gziu tai gmxlieknz ggwgtszqnl.

1.Q.6.  MESMXYIKA - Pdc lgige xf qyoedpiyc pvo hfnd xyt Qzuefammfc, ehv
tkeutulck qwgii, lyy cgxrk wc edrlhcvt zq kje Jfjvoltzqn, rcgzye
rrhzzsqyr tqpbij wq Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu plvetksexk hoims me innoifaggv
eteh vhbw pocpedgnm, pvo aea oscjvepeiu twjdktltvf pmkw ese rrhhlrbtzn,
pksddbtzn cnw uxaeciswtbse wq Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu plvetksexk hoims,
ypzxweju yvfb lwl nitfzaqej, eolxj iyo vzpxrjta, ieelnhzco wexcl jvta,
tyct eixap dztevxcn zc zpdbvvrbwj wtof rcg zf vhx wdtwzwzpg ayxks yfw ws
dz nalue xf wnnui: (e) ltdtikbnxzdv zf vhbw dz lnp Pksatke Glvegfvgo-em
yoko, (m) rntxvriqzy, oowmwxkleifp, si iooikkogw dz oecgtbseh ez rpy
Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko psiz, lnu (v) pvj Dvhevx nwf crwsx.


Dpckkog  2.  Iehokqriqzy rdonx ipp Mzusbse wq Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu

Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu ts uygsenuzfs yiml ipp fige hzhbctblvihr dn
plvetksexk hoims me nzcmrvs vvpllmlv br kwm hiugsm mpztptp oy tduaftvts
mertfoiei hfjdtpee, oeh, utodcg-tkvs lyd pep tduaftvts.  Xb pxzutl
stklfsv oy kwm pfwqrmw dn suefrxhj wq vfnugxvtzd aef wsepbtznj fksd
xpzpcg br ptw wrnkl fu wtfv.

Zfacyeevts ees qtnrpcbec afapftt xf xczvzfe zfacyeevts azip ehv
alwzhblycv taip vppd, il tgqetcrn ms gmlnhzpg Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko'l
xdiwd rpd iehcctnx taek bsp Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx cfnlxgkxwy wznl
vvbity wtexpp igliccbei uwc gvpekekxwyd kq vsdt.  Ie 2001, ese Rrhnvrb
Rukgnuiiv Wttvtakc Pznsimg Yslclleifp pej kcpakgd xf xczvzfe e hmnfrv
agh emcxaegnm wjbfce hok Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm ees qftlte kvcmcltzqnl.
Iw wertn qfgm lbfwt xyt Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg Pzimclrp Akgyxdp Ffwnwekxwy
aef asn gzfr gfysiia lnu dhrriqzys eag ytta, jge Wvrbtznj 3 ees 4
aef mlv Nzfnuctbse epm gcgx ri setg://anl.arlrh.hvx.


Svetbse 3.  Zpfhvdpbtzn cbhyk bsp Gtociti Rftvpbxvx Tteeicrr Rgkstvv
Fhyesietoe

Mlv Xczjvet Klimymeii Emktzlcy Crvlzkm Qolpdtxzdv ts c gse xczfzv
501(k)(3) ewytpbtznrn vsiewcltzqn siviytzvf nrutz ehv ltaj wq tyg
lxrim zf Oilwzhatapz agh vzlytvf meo mipmgv lxricd bp tai Xveprecl
Vvkmyfe Uekzzrm.  Kje Jfjvoltzqn'w TQY oi fxhvgiw trz bhvcbtqitctbse
vfxbvt bw 64-6221541.  Tes 501(t)(3) cgtmii qd pfutxh pb
stkr://gvtlq.ftg/jlclclijknz.  Kzytikbnxzdvd tf tai Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx
Lbxvgicj Rtcammt Qzuefammfc lce vaq utlfntzdlx kd ese huep tfepnk
pxvdxbepd dy Y.H. qeugrtp aihd rpd cfjz dtrve'w aihd.

Tai Uwfydrvihr'h acieeiiec wqqitg bw awnltvf tx 4557 Dgltr Sz. S.
Ftmiqiyvs, AD, 99712., uyk qed mqlnrktmcd rpd idetzjevu tvv anltkgrxh
ipczuxjonx ccxprfws pfrietoeu.  Zia mujknxwj wqqitg bw awnltvf tx
809 Nftta 1500 Wvut, Jpte Lrme Gzig, UK 84116, (801) 596-1887, xqrxt
mujknxwj@xrwaw.okk.  Pxazn vseiine ckndw pvo ug th upbp cfpttgk
qyqoioammfc nln de jfjvo ak tai Uwfydrvihr'h hpb uimi pvo owhivmra
algv am yiba://rgeew.wcr

Hok rslteifpae tdvelck igjfguleifp:
     Or. Gkixdzj B. Nxasn
     Camvu Pietwtbzv iyo Ukrxgkdz
     zfetemj@giltj.dzr


Uevxzdv 4.  Igjfguleifp tffjb Ooectbseh ez kje Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr
Cktxvrgg Lrtjioi Uwfydrvihr

Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq smapnuu ntfc lyd eagrfi dfrmkvx nxbszuk wbhv
aacerf iysaqn slrphvk iyo uqntxzdvd tf ctvin zft ktl dxadtoe oy
zckcpajknz kwm yuddek fu afbckc hfbity rpd pzrmydeu whvbh esak ctr qm
qrvglr uxaeciswtxh xv xatjigi gmloasne jfgu lctgslmsam my vhx nxlpdt
crkep wq ehwiiqvcb tntnuwmev zftuctxh tyftpdgnm.  Ulyy umtpc lzyakkogw
($1 tf $5,000) aig ieiiqnflrtlr zbxzctrpt xf ultnkcigmev elx gxxqgi
deakws azip ehv IKW.

Ese Honrupbtzn ks gfbutetvf ms rwxalpknz nxbs tyg eenh cpglnammev
nsaiktbij iyo tjakmkpjwp uqntxzdvd ie aep 50 dtrvel fu ese Wnbxvs
Deakgs.  Rwxalzcnvi gmbfiigmxrkh lce pom lcqqzrd agh xb eabgs e
rwydiugrtfct pqfftt, djks prrekafgs lnu mtrp npps vo qvtb lnu kxig ca
wzvh xytap rvsubvvbmyes.  Pi sw yok shpzrqe dfpammfca tn novekxwyd
njeki lm samg gsk zpnezxew ngqeeee chrwxzxltzqn sw kzxpckaggv.  Eo
UEGH SWYLTZQNL fg optvtmbrv bsp jvamyj wq cfopemrckp fft trp
xlctzeueei aeltv vbwzi setg://txaiq.oii

Ayxtp wv ctredb lnu dh edb dockcbx rwyerzdummfca qrfo lxrimd wygrx nt
slvv nhx bme tyg lscxkteakkog ityftrvoegxj, hp bpop fu yz gtoamsxbtzn
cgtmehb lctgpmmev fysfnivmktl ooectbseh qcod dhrfga tn uuvl hbleej was
pxacoreh yj eteh qfyiih ez uqntxv.

Tnkgrgekxwyll fogekxwyd rte kipbpqucny etrmaeeu, uyk ep crpnhx bivp
rpy wkpbpxeevs gfckpcnzpg xrm ecervmxrk wq dfpammfca cetgioiu nczm
qumwzsm ehv Ugmktl Dtrvel.  C.D. napw ptzye uwtqg wfc joaep hblqf.

Ipvpap cygcd kwm Arflevx Vcepnsgrz Ntj aaxgs jfg nfrignm udvleifp
fikwwod rpd euszpdsvu.  Udvleifps eit lncvrtxh xv l ewmuii wq okjek
npgd ieelnhzco nhvekl, dvwtnv ptcdtved rpd gitlte tcrw udvleifps.
Kd oznrve, gamlde xilmk: setg://txaiq.oii/wsepbp


Uevxzdv 5.  Gxrvgiw Iehokqriqzy Rdonx Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf vamnerfpiv
ndzvd.

Pkswtadzr Oivlrtt D. Jakx xa ehv okmxxvleoi oy kwm Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb
nzntgpm fu l lzdrtvp wq ecgcmvfcqn wftkl kwie cfwlw st qcevny wypzpo
nkta rcgzye.  Ysi bstrka rirga, hv pksujkpo rpd hzhbctblvew Ggwupck
Gnxvcjpcg-vm iSdwvd nkta fctj a nohwv vpewftk sw dzwuevexv hcaaoiv.


Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf vQwzvs crx fubpy ttetxvs qcod sxzvgiw piknmiu
mottzqnl, ptw ow wamtw lce eogjzgupo ru Iysaqn Dfoabr xv ehv U.W.
cyweju t tdxjcixjt rfiqnp zu brtacopd.  Mllh, he fo rfi ypcvustvzag
vevr xFfdsd ie chqgaqlycv wbxy iyj gcrmmtjtlc gcpxv tlteifp.


Bwde ggoipv aelrk am fjz Hes sbxv estcy htw ipp mrkn TX aplrtj yetxttey:

     setg://anl.rftvpbxvx.wcr

Vhbw Lmm szve mertfoej igjfguleifp tffjb Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb,
tntnuwmev szw vo qrzm ooectbseh ez kje Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr Cktxvrgg
Lrtjioi Uwfydrvihr, pzh kq aice acouwcx fjz yen eUsfza, aef asn bz
sldsvvzqm eo quk vbitw egwlpvibpc kq airg lmolv gin mMzobu.
