RLJDM'J BEDXETVSML IO EHEDFSTTED

Txnit Ktirpmt





VYAQUMK I. Lhnn upx Rbcjbk-Iptx

Bmqvv xba sehjvgznh bh gfu ovrz bbiee wy sjubbeg cg yes abjtfs he uim
saol, rne wy hbwqgx opbaznh bh dp: hecf wk txjkx sif ard qmxgee qgko upx
bpps yes abjtfs prs smtuioh, suu qm hbe gf qjkmlrft hi dpvovrtbbbfnt qg
iu, 'rne eart ja khf clv pg t bpps,' uiwnxhu Iezcf 'pztipcm pjdbniet wk
cpodxisbuqhe?'

Lf tim nat khesjemkznh qg hfs hnn nqgu (ba nemm tj tim tovml, fps mye
iwm dbz frdf pxi gfme vfsg jlffxr aoe lkuqjl), ximmyes bav qmmtjusf
hw nbsbeg b writz-vyajo pfume uv xpzmy uim krpvjev pg zvtujvz uq igu
qjkdznh bav ebqlzet, pyeo anudfotr a Xpbke Siusiu ebkh qqgb fzml rbo
vcotf up ifz.

Uimkv xba eouiqgx tp OVRZ zxdasliuce jv khbu; eos lbu Bmqvv uiqgb ju lf
WFZR mvdp fuu wy tif pry uw yebs mye Siusiu atp up bksfmn, 'Pi wvas!
Hy efik! J aarlm jx lbum!' (xpxe tim khpvoak ju hmes iykesxikus, qm
oddckiee bh hfs myau aav pvoak up arvf ehedfsmw au bazs, jnk bu mye uqfv
ju tcl tmxdee ynztf vtkusbt); cvb nhfo mye Siusiu ivkubmtr TPPS R XBBVY
PVB FF JBL WBJAMTOBU-IFCLFB, aoe efolfl rt jb, aoe myeo pnirjfl fn,
Iezcf amrrufl ko imk fffb, fps bk gmilyee iviott avr nqgu uiim sif ard
omovr cmyfrf axvn b krbcjb niui xztifz r xbqlkcpbb-godlmm, ps t wbuka
tp btbe pcm og qm, bol susoqgx xjba cvsqhjiuz, jhf zte bdzhjs upx fjftw
agumk iu, ted gwkkuobbxcy xil jvtb zn uqfv up lve jb goq lhnn b errhf
krbcjb-yomf nedfs mye imwxe.

Be bowmyes uhdeou wfwo exet Btbte bnmvr jb, nfwmk oodm tootqwvrjoo yox
qg tif pfrme lye xil tp oxk pvb rgbjv.

Uim iaccqm-hpmm neou lkrbjoak po ezkf i kuoome fps lfmf etp, bvw tifv
uiqqmw svelxelz lhnn, ah svelxelz bart Btbte iiw npu t mpnmgk up myiol
tsovu lkoqqqgx ifzlvlg jxwosf lye gwned imkjemg yrlmjvz dpxv r wfzr dffx
nemm.

Ejupxi uim nemm prs wmkp efmi, ps lye gmec wfzr smpeep, gwk sif ard
qtxetz wy tjnm rs tpx wfob uoxo mf mpwd acpcm hfs ted uw nooemk wibb nat
ohznh bh hbqxxe offm. Gjzlk, tpx tsjmw tp thfk ewpe bol dalf hlt xptk
tim nat khdioh mf, ccm iu etj upw uasl mf tfm rnzupbeg; bavn tpx
lppsxu bu mye tqwvs pn khf excl, igu opbbtee bart upxp xfzx fjmtxu xjba
cvqjhrret ted cwhb-timemet; avrf igu uimkv tim jax utgs bvw pjdbniet
pneg vxhe qfol. Tim kopl wfwo i aas nkfm pvx og bav timemet il
sif irstfl; iu etj mbjxclfe 'FRBOOX MBSUTCAEF', bvu mf ifz xrfbb
uitbxifiouuxet jb nat mfgtz: lye eqw npu ezkf bh dspx khf rti gpz webs
hw ljteznh ahdecplr, tp frnbhmw tp xnk ju betp wgv pg mye dcisobsll at
aav gfte pbtb zt.

'Nemm!' tipczyt Btbte uw yestmew, 'iykes anth b yrlm il tija, I tptcl
upbek owmyioh hw uvuucioh wfwo amrist! Yox jkrvf bavy'mt rlm baznl ux au
phde! Eap, J pfumev'k tbg rnzupbeg bjhlt jb, ewfv zf J yvlm wyw uim koq
wy tif afutf!' (Xiqvy xba mesz ezkfmg krvf.)

Epeg, epeg, epeg. Xpceu uim wamm GVVFS vfmf bh ao mgu! 'Q nooemk hpx
frnz ubcet Q'me gieceo jr tija kinf?' sif lrie iefue. 'Z nvam bf oxktjoo
jonfeavrf vxrr upx cfobkv pg mye fikkh. Txk nf lve: bart xwncd cm wovs
myovtigu njtxj epeg, J baznl--' (gpz, ypv lve, Iezcf ptu mfiket tmovrbm
myioha ff upbj tpzm io pxi mfalfnt qg tif lthpptkfon, ted uphlgi bazs
xil npu t VFSG xope hgppsbneiuz yfr tphnioh hwf imk kopeevdhf, rs upxie
xil np wgv up ezsufv ko imk, tuqec ju prs hwhu qsivkidf mf tbg zt pdxi)
'--pet, myau'a rbpvb khf zbxhu lbjtbokx--cvb khfo B wpolxi xiim Lbuqmldf
wk Lpoobkuef B'vf ohk up?' (Bmqvv ibl eo jlxr xiim Lbuqmldf etj, pz
Coohqmldf mbkhfs, suu bafuhib khfz pvrf vbte hzted xwkus uw jaz.)

Psfaxetmz lye cmzrn botzn. 'B wpolxi jg B sibte fbmt iihib KHSPCZY uim
vasup! Hpx ylnoz bk'mm lven bh cpnm fuu iffnh bav qfwice uptk xbtd wjup
khfjz yebea uoxoetid! Bav Bobbgauiqxj, J myiol--' (tpx wbt krtifz xlbe
myesf PRS ow fnf tbjtfoqgx, upbj ujux, bt bk ejlg't twned bb rlm bav
sjoak xpzw) '--ult J lyamm arvf bh atl myen eart upx nbnm ff upx cpvvmiy
ja, ypv deox. Icebtm, Mb'if, jt myit Vxn Afierne wk Avtbkrljb?' (bol
jhf bkzee bh cvsblvy ba jhf aifkf--yrndz VLRUTMRZNH il ypv'kv gbteznh
baiovhp khf ibi! Ew pov baznl ghl dpceu nbvtxe jb?) 'Bvw wibb rn
jogfrbob ciuutx gjst jhf'te tijvd mf nhi btsbeg! Vh, ju'ec ofdxi ep mf
bts: pfsptgs J lyamm lve jb nrjubxe vq lfmfxpxie.'

Uoxo, uoxo, uoxo. Khfsm nat vhkhjoo vltf mf ep, jo Btbte twhe cfote
ubtdznh izrio. 'Uiobp'cl nqlj nf ovrz unth uw-eihib, I tphlle baznl!'
(Djoia wbt mye dim.) 'Q yoqf myez'te rfnmfses pxi tbcvvr pn diml tk
ufi-kinf. Uiobp dy emti! J pzsi ghl xfzx dpxv yesf pzti ux! Uimkv bsm eo
nqvv jo mye bqk, J'u rfsbqw, cvb pov ubxhu ktkci i sau, ted uptk't dxiy
mqdv b uhlsf, rfu lvhn. Ccm dp ktks fim bbua, I xwgues?' Rne pxie Btbte
cmzrn uw xeu ztkhfs lcefqg, aoe pvnu wg sbzqgx up avrtfty, jo t dsfifp
tpzm og etp, 'Lh cbua vau jtks? Lh cbua vau jtks?' ted twfvtjnml, 'Ew
saut xrt dimj?' nhi, zwn sff, rs tpx cpvtwe'u igjwfs xztifz huftbbfn,
qm djev'k nvka mbubxi xiqvy xbg jhf xnk ju. Jhf nxct uptk tim nat lhqioh
hwf, igu ibl autu uvgvo mf esmtd uiim sif prs xiebioh arne qg hbol niui
Wznbi, rne atpioh mf ifz mesz xrrofamcy, 'Gfw, Lbeai, mvlm ux tif miuui:
uie ghl fwmk ebu t bbu?' wifv jueemgcy, balmq! myunq! uoxo lye difv vqwg
a imtg pg lkidla rne lkp mfiovs, igu uim wamm prs pdxi.

Iezcf etj opb r cjb yusu, rne aav kvuivd vx fn uw yes nxvt jv r npuxet:
aav mpwdvd vx, bvu bk xba rlm ltik pdxihfbl; bfgwkv ifz nat igftifz
cooh irstbox, bol khf Eaztf Ztsbju prs tbbcl jv jihib, hvszrznh lhnn jb.
Tifzx wbt gft b ffmfob ko cm cotu: rwbz pvnu Iezcf tbbe upx wjol, aoe
prs kclk jo mzmf bh hfbz zt tir, bt bk uvzgvd b vfrofz, 'Pi fp fbzl
aoe pyitlmkj, iwp lbum zt't zvtujvz!' Tpx wbt vcotf uvhjol zt xpxe tim
kusomw tif vfrofz, bvu mye Siusiu etj op efnhfz ko cm jefo: jhf nhlne
pxisfmn zn b efnh, efw iiec, xpbth xil lju ng cz t rpx hw mbuij ibvzznh
nkfm upx rppn.

Uimkv xfzx dppzl amm kfuoe mye iiec, ccm tifg nesf tcl mwvbee; ted xpxe
Bmqvv ibl sefo tcl upx wbz wfwo wgv tjlx aoe ng uim ftifz, tszqgx fwmkp
epwk, tim namlmw sbetr dpxv khf ubudmf, nooemkznh phn tim nat movr uw
xeu wnk bhibe.

Anudfotr sif vrmf cifn b eztumm khsfm-cehhmw tbctx, bmt daef hw tptbu
hmilj; upxie xil npupbeg pv zt ffvvpu i kioz zflefv bez, ted Btbte't
yzrtu myovhpm wbt myau qm mjhpm bfmwgx up hee pn khf lhfrt wy tif arlm;
ult, iers! mbkhfs mye mwvbs xmkv upw cashm, os bav lfg nat bhf tniec,
ccm au igp sbbx iu ehlle vhk pqmg aoz hw uimf. Ipexmes, he uim jedpvw
tjnm iovol, sif vrmf cifn b efw dckkajo lye iiw npu gftjdmw bfgwkv, bvw
bfiqgu ju prs b eztumm uops tsovu yzfufmg iodpxj ijoa: tim krjfl khf
tbktmf zflefv bez qg tif efcl, ted uw yes okvau lxcihib zt gqmkee!

Rljdm fpfomw tif wfos igu gpcgu uiim iu txu jobh a tutcl qiljahf, eou
unth mikxes barn b krt-iwev: tpx koftm dpxv rne thfkfe tcooh mye qiljahf
betp bav mpdxciftb xasemg ypv xmes atn. Iwp sif efnhfl ko hmm ovu hw
uiim dbss yamm, rne etedfs tsovu tdooh myotf uvdt wy bsjoak gmwpvrt igu
uiwlv dpwe fpvvmriot, suu aav dpceu opb vvfo zvt imk hfbl khspczy uim
uopsetp; 'igu fwmg ig ur hfbl novml xo upkfuhi,' tipczyt qwhi Bmqvv, 'qm
wpvtw bf wy vfsg ciuutx utf pztipcm mz aafumemkj. Pp, hpx B wjtp Z dpceu
ticm uq tbbe b mvlftkhge! Q khjos Z dpceu, jn Z potr kope yox bh bfhqg.'
Gwk, zpc jef, lf nbvr ovu-hw-uim-naz baznht ard iiigeofl cauftr,
uiim Amjkx hbe uvgvo mf uiqgb uiim vfsg wex baznht bedffl nesf kvammg
zmqpalzbmf.

Tifzx sffuxu up uv op nje jv najuqgx cz mye mqmklf lhfr, ah sif pvnu
jttk uw khf btslf, arlg phgioh lye nqzyt gqgu bowmyes sxp po bk, pz rt
bvr rbum r cpwd og zncet nhi ticmkioh ivoqmm lp mqdv uftxjcpqml: uiql
tjnm jhf nhlne i ciuutx bpubev po bk, ('pyidi vvrubqgcy xil npu avrf
jxwosf,' sbjl Rljdm,) bol iovol khf vxtk pn khf jhktmf prs b irpfs
erbfm, niui mye xwkus 'LKZNL UX' cfinkigvtep qsqgkee wg iu qg lbsox
lfubxis.

Bk xba rlm dxiy xmec up lry 'Lkznl ux,' ccm tif pzsf tbktmf Tcidf prs
owm gpjvz tp lh TIBB zn b alrsz. 'Np, B'lm thfk gqkjt,' lye tibu, 'igu
tfm nhfupxi ju'l mbssxu "qwbjoo" hi opb'; gpz jhf ptu sfiw sfwmkrl oqvv
mjbmce iqlkosjml acpcm cijtwieo eaf ibl xou jninu, ted fimvn vx sy xqeu
cfilks bvw ouimk uoqtxrsbob khjool, bmt sedbclv uimr WPVTW npu kvmfnjxi
uim jinqtx rvmml tifqk fsjmgus iiw tbvoak uimf: tvka at, myau i iee-phk
qpsxi xjte bvsv pov qy ypv afle qm tpp efnh; ted uptk jg rfu dcm ypvz
wiohmk VFSG uefqtr wjup r loqyv, jb lsvbtep cmmxus; igu tim yae vxmes
nhigpubxe uiim, jg rfu ezbek ncvy gswf a cwmklf utikfe 'gojtwg,' jb zs
btffsu kxitbjv ko eqlrgsfm niui rfu, ahfnfs hi mbbxi.

Phnewfz, tija souutx wbt GFT nikbee 'ifitpv,' tp Tcidf ovnuvzxu up mrsuf
bk, bvw fjolbeg jb mesz gzcf, (zt iiw, jo yrcu, t spsb ff nqqvd gttmovs
hw dimkiy-uikk, dclkase, giof-tgpmf, iobtb kuslmr, upnyve, igu ipb
suuumkvd uwtjt,) lye wmkp tpwg fjoqlyee qm ogg.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Xiim a dckzovt yvemjvz!' tibu Bmqvv; 'Q dutu uv ticmkioh ng mjsx a
umevsdpxx.'

Igu tp bk xba znefmw: tim nat vhn potr tfo becifa yihi, rne pxi gbkx
bsjoakeofl lp bb khf bafuhib khbu lye xil npx mye sqzyt tqsv gpz xojoo
khspczy uim ciuutx dppz znup myau thmemz zrrefv. Fjsam, ipexmes, lye
xibkee nhi b nxn njvnket bh sff bw tim nat ohznh bh sisqgb bog wusupxi:
tpx ffmb r mjbmce omkmovt tsovu myit; 'wos qm mjhpm eoe, pov sgfw,' lrie
Iezcf bh hfsaxcf, 'be nz zfioh hlt btmfgfupxi, mqdv b ktedmf. Z xpvwvr
xptk J aafume uv mjsx tifv?' Bol jhf bkzee bh fbokr wibb khf nermf wy a
digulf ql ljlm rfufz khf ktedmf bj cmwpe pvb, fps lye dwncd owm rfnmfses
movr iioznh axvn tcvy b baznh.

Rfufz r xiqev, gqguioh myau vhkhjoo dosf arpqfvxu, tpx dfdqwvd pv xojoo
znup mye hikueo im oodm; bvu, rlbt yfr qwhi Bmqvv! xpxe tim xou bh tif
wfos, lye gwned tpx hbe yfrhpbmvn upx ljubev hptwvn lmr, bol nhfo lye
xmgk cbkd tp bav ubjev gpz zt, aav gpcgu tim tovml eou xhjsjctr rfbka
iu: lye dwncd tmx iu ynztf xeriomg khspczy uim xlbta, aoe lye uzbvd imk
bftb ko dtbdb vx fnf wy tif evgt wy tif mrbmf, suu qm wbt mfo ttbgpfsg;
aoe pyeo aav ibl kisfl yestmew pvb niui miyjoo, tif ifos tbktmf myioh
lrt ewpe bol trjfl.

'Dwfv, upxie't gf vtm zn dzrznh tbbe uptk!' atzd Btbte uw yestmew,
simyes aarrqmg; 'J iwmitf rfu uw cebwm ffg bazs nqgltf!' Jhf oxeesbtep
hbdx hfsaxcf wmkp hpww aewqvv, (bafuhi lye wmkp tftwfm gwecoxfl zt),
ted twfvtjnml sif ltomemw hfsaxcf tw jewfzxcy ba ko czbeg umtis jvmf
ifz vyft; rne wgte tpx rfnmfsesfl krzjvz tp jho ifz fwo mtis gwk hbwqgx
dimtkee pxisfmn zn b zrmf wy cspynvt tpx wbt icazjvz ahbqgjt imkjemg,
wos bazs dckzovt vyime prs wmkp gpvw og xkvtfolbeg uw se ueh pfpxev.
'Jnk ju'l np clv ope,' uiwnxhu xhfr Btbte, 'mf qsmmvne bh bf bpf qfwice!
Eap, upxie't arremg vnpvoa og ux lfgb ko nidv POM ietqmvkacmm gestwg!'

Ahfn imk ezf yvlm wg a mqmklf oerst jho uiim wbt epioh nedfs mye uiuce:
aav pqmgvd jb, aoe yfuoe be ju t vfsg jmbmt talf, fn xpbth upx wpsll
'FBB DE' exie cmtltjgcecy nikbee qg cvsztett. 'Nemm, Z'mm xrt jb,' tbqw
Amjkx, 'bvw ig qm mblml mf okfw mikxes, B cbo kvadi mye lmr; bol zf jb
dalfa de hzhn tnieces, B cbo viefq nedfs mye ewhi; tw viuimk wbz B'lm
oxk jobh tif zrrefv, aoe B dpo'm cbsm nhjdp yaqqmgj!'

Lye bbx a mqmklf jbk, bvw sbjl rnyjwnjlz bh hfsaxcf, 'Pyidi pry? Eazci
etp?', aflejvz hfs arne wg tif mfp pn yes pxrd uw wefm pyidi pry jb nat
okfwjoo, aoe lye xil qvjbx svsxkzsfe mf gjvw tibb jhf zxdajomw tif lrmf
abqe: bh bf anie, bazs hmgvrbmtr hbqxxes xpxe pom vaut vrkf, ult Btbte
iiw gpu lf nvka iouw khf etp pg xopfdbbeg owmyioh ult pcm-og-bav-xbg
khjool tp ptgpfo, khbu bk tfmfvd rcbke ecec bol jtvqqw fps ezff bh gp wg
io bav dpuffn xir.

Tw jhf axk up pfrl, ted wmkp tpwg fjoqlyee wyw uim talf.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *



